<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 24 (Thursday, February 5, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 24 (Thursday, February 5, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 5216-5242]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-02288]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE

Drug Enforcement Administration

21 CFR Parts 1300, 1301, 1304, 1306, and 1307

[Docket No. DEA-377]
RIN 1117-AB37


Registering Emergency Medical Services Agencies Under the 
Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act of 2017

AGENCY: Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice.

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: The ``Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act 
of 2017,'' (the Act) which became law on November 17, 2017, amended the 
Controlled Substances Act (CSA) to allow for a new registration 
category for emergency medical services agencies that handle controlled 
substances. It also established standards for registering emergency 
medical services agencies, and set forth new requirements for delivery, 
storage, and recordkeeping related to their handling of controlled 
substances. In addition, the Act allows emergency medical services 
professionals to administer controlled substances outside the physical 
presence of a medical director or authorizing medical professional 
pursuant to a valid standing or verbal order. The Drug Enforcement 
Administration is publishing this final rule to conform its regulations 
to the statutory amendments of the CSA and to otherwise implement its 
requirements. This final rule adopts, with minor modifications, the 
notice of proposed rulemaking published on October 5, 2020.

DATES: This rule is effective March 9, 2026.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Heather E. Achbach, Regulatory 
Drafting and Policy Support Section (DPW), Diversion Control Division, 
Drug Enforcement Administration; Mailing Address: 8701 Morrissette 
Drive, Springfield, Virginia 22152; Telephone: (571) 776-3882.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:

Outline

I. Background and Purpose
    A. Legal Authority
    B. Purpose
    C. Background
    D. Summary of the Act and Changes to the CSA
    E. Summary of the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking
II. Discussion of Public Comments
III. Section-by-Section Summary of the Final Rule
IV. Regulatory Analyses

I. Background and Purpose

A. Legal Authority

    On November 17, 2017, the ``Protecting Patient Access to Emergency 
Medications Act of 2017,'' Public Law 115-83 (131 Stat. 1267) (the 
Act), became law.
    The Act amended a section of the CSA, 21 U.S.C. 823, by adding a 
new subsection, 21 U.S.C. 823(k). This new subsection alters a number 
of CSA requirements ``[f]or the purpose of enabling emergency medical 
services professionals to administer controlled substances in schedule 
II, III, IV, or V to ultimate users receiving emergency medical 
services.'' 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(1). The Act also specifically authorizes 
the Attorney General (and thus the Administrator of the Drug 
Enforcement Administration (DEA) by delegation) \1\ to issue certain 
regulations to implement the Act. Id. 823(k)(11).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \1\ 21 U.S.C. 871(a); 28 CFR 0.100(b).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

B. Purpose

    The purposes of this final rule are two-fold. First, this final 
rule codifies, in DEA regulations, the statutory amendments made by the 
Act, conforming DEA's implementing regulations to statutory amendments 
of the CSA that have already taken effect. Second, this final rule 
makes limited additional changes that are authorized by the CSA, as 
amended by the Act, and to further implement the Act and effectuate its 
purposes.

C. Background

    When an individual experiences a medical emergency, the entry into 
the healthcare system may not start with the care of a physician within 
a traditional clinical setting, but instead with the intervention of 
emergency medical services (EMS) personnel affiliated with a local EMS 
agency at the incident site. EMS personnel, who provide emergency 
medical services by ground, air, or otherwise, respond to 60 million 
calls in 2024. EMS involves the evaluation and management of patients 
with acute traumatic and medical conditions in a prehospital 
environment,\2\ and is an important component of medical care, as early 
medical intervention saves lives and often reduces the severity of 
injury.\3\ The nature of medical

[[Page 5217]]

intervention at the incident site and during transport to the hospital 
can vary widely depending on the severity and type of injury or 
impairment, and may include the administering of controlled 
substances.\4\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \2\ Federal Interagency Committee on Emergency Medical Services 
(FICEMS) 2011 National EMS Assessment.
    \3\ Kuehl, Alexander. ``25.'' Prehospital Systems and Medical 
Oversight. Dubuque, IA: Kendall/Hunt Pub., 2002. (``For most 
prehospital medical conditions, patient outcome is assumed to be 
beneficially influenced by early medical intervention, and 
contemporary prehospital care systems are a well-defined practice of 
medicine in the United States.'').
    \4\ A non-exhaustive list of common controlled substance 
pharmaceuticals utilized by EMS include the benzodiazepine class of 
drugs for seizures and sedation as well as morphine (schedule II), 
fentanyl (schedule II), and meperidine (schedule II) for pain 
management.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    The delivery of emergency medical care is primarily a local 
function; and, accordingly, a wide variety of organizational structures 
are utilized across the nation. EMS programs may be a part of the local 
municipal government, hospital, or independent government agency, or 
may be contracted by local government with a private entity. Each State 
has a State EMS licensing office that is responsible for the overall 
planning, coordination, and regulation of the State EMS system, as well 
as licensing or certifying EMS providers and ambulances.\5\ These 
agencies are often located within the State health department but may 
also be found as part of the public safety department or as independent 
agencies.\6\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \5\ <a href="http://www.ems.gov">http://www.ems.gov</a>.
    \6\ Id.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

D. Summary of the Act and Changes to the CSA

    The Act established uniform EMS agency requirements for the 
administration of controlled substances while ensuring adequate 
safeguards against theft and diversion. The Act added a new subsection 
to the CSA, 21 U.S.C. 823(k). The new 21 U.S.C. 823(k) makes several 
notable changes to the CSA.
    First, the Act creates a new registration category under the CSA 
for EMS agencies, directing the Attorney General (and thus the 
Administrator of DEA by delegation) to register such an agency under 
the CSA if the agency submits an application demonstrating that it is 
authorized to conduct emergency medical services under the laws of each 
State in which the agency practices. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(1)(A). Pursuant 
to 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(1)(B), the Act authorizes the Attorney General to 
deny the application of an EMS agency if registering it is inconsistent 
with other requirements of 21 U.S.C. 823(k) or with the public interest 
based on the factors of 21 U.S.C. 823(g).
    Second, the Act directs the Attorney General (and thus the 
Administrator) to allow a registered EMS agency to obtain a single 
registration for each State in which the EMS agency administers 
controlled substances, rather than requiring the agency to obtain a 
separate registration for each location at which it operates within 
that State. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(2). The Act also provides that a hospital-
based emergency medical services agency registered under 21 U.S.C. 
823(g) may use the registration of the hospital to administer 
controlled substances under 21 U.S.C. 823(k), without requiring the 
agency to acquire a separate registration. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(3).
    Third, subject to certain restrictions, the Act authorizes EMS 
professionals of a registered EMS agency to administer controlled 
substances in schedule II, III, IV, or V outside the physical presence 
of a medical director or authorizing medical professional while 
providing emergency medical services. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(4). EMS 
professionals are only allowed to make such administrations if 
authorized by State law and pursuant to standing or verbal orders that 
satisfy a number of statutory conditions. Id.
    Fourth, the Act provides a variety of requirements for how 
registered EMS agencies must deliver controlled substances from 
registered to unregistered locations, store controlled substances, 
restock EMS vehicles at a hospital, maintain records, and otherwise 
conduct their operations. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(5)-(10).
    Fifth, the Act specifically authorizes the Attorney General (and 
thus the Administrator) to issue regulations regarding the delivery and 
storage of controlled substances by EMS agencies. Id. 823(k)(11).

E. Summary of the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking

    DEA published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) in the Federal 
Register on October 5, 2020 to (1) codify in DEA regulations the 
statutory amendments of the CSA that have already taken effect; and (2) 
amend DEA regulations to implement the Act and effectuate its purposes, 
including by adding new regulations regarding the registration, 
security, recordkeeping, inventory, and administration requirements for 
EMS agencies.\7\ DEA invited comments from the public on all of the 
topics covered in the NPRM to be submitted on or before December 4, 
2020. This final rule responds to comments received concerning the 
proposed rule and adopts the proposed regulations with minor 
modifications.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \7\ Registering Emergency Medical Services Agencies Under the 
Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act of 2017, 85 
FR 62634 (Oct. 5, 2020).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

II. Discussion of Public Comments

    DEA received eighty-one comments in response to the publication of 
the NPRM. The commenters included EMS medical directors, physicians, 
medical associations, and members of the general public. DEA thanks all 
commenters for their comments and appreciates the input received during 
the rulemaking process. While the majority of the commenters expressed 
support for various provisions in the proposed rule, some commenters 
offered only partial support for the rule--agreeing with the general 
purpose of the rule, but disagreeing with particular provisions. 
Several commenters also disagreed with the proposed changes entirely, 
and two comments were entirely outside the scope of the rule. These 
comments and suggested changes to the rule, along with DEA's responses, 
are further described below.

Designated Location

    Issue: DEA received nine comments which suggested eliminating the 
definition and concept of a stationhouse as a brick-and-mortar building 
that is primarily used for EMS and houses EMS vehicles. One commenter 
stated that EMS systems will likely need to designate locations where 
EMS vehicles, equipment or personnel are housed, even though such 
locations may not actually house vehicles inside that location. A 
commenter suggested that this is particularly true in urban systems 
that use central supply facilities, air ambulance bases, and other 
arrangements where vehicles are not permanently housed or stored 
indoors. Some commenters believe that this rule is too narrow an 
interpretation of congressional intent. Specifically, commenters stated 
that if Congress wanted to limit the designated location to a physical 
structure that houses an emergency medical services vehicle, then 
Congress would have done so. Another commenter objected to any 
requirement that EMS agencies designate locations to which they deliver 
controlled substances as unduly interfering with EMS agencies' 
flexibility.
    DEA Response: The CSA and DEA regulations generally require 
dispensers of controlled substances to separately register each 
principal place of business from where they dispense controlled 
substances, allowing DEA to ensure that substances at those locations 
are not at

[[Page 5218]]

unnecessary risk of diversion. See 21 U.S.C. 822(e)(1); 21 CFR 1301.12. 
The Act creates an exception to this requirement, authorizing an EMS 
agency to deliver controlled substances to unregistered locations 
designated by the agency with advance notice to DEA. 21 U.S.C. 
823(k)(5). The Act, however, also expressly provides in 21 U.S.C. 
823(k)(11)(A)(i) that DEA may by regulation ``specify[ ] . . . the 
types of locations that may be designated.'' Thus, Congress intended 
DEA to be able to place limitations on which locations could be 
designated, and authorized DEA to determine what those limitations 
should be, recognizing the need to avoid undermining the CSA's general 
requirement of registration and to avoid applying this exception in a 
way that would unnecessarily increase the risk of diversion.
    In the proposed rule, DEA sought to fulfill this purpose by 
limiting designated locations to ``stationhouses'' and defining 
stationhouses as enclosed structures housing EMS agency vehicles within 
the State of the emergency medical services agency's registration, and 
which are actively and primarily being used for emergency response. By 
limiting designated locations to those clearly being used by EMS 
personnel to house and resupply EMS vehicles, the proposed rule sought 
to reduce the opportunities for controlled substances to be stolen by 
non-EMS personnel or mislaid. Through such limitations, the proposed 
rule also sought to ensure that designated locations would be readily 
identifiable to DEA investigators.
    Commenters, however, have identified several situations in which 
EMS agency facilities may be used clearly and primarily for official 
EMS purposes--generally fulfilling purposes of the proposed rule's 
limitations--but not actually ``house'' associated EMS vehicles. Such 
purposes include but are not limited to the storage of medical 
supplies, controlled substances, and equipment; staff training and 
education; and administrative functions essential to EMS operations. 
The commenters were concerned with defining a ``stationhouse'' strictly 
as a brick-and-mortar structure that houses EMS vehicles. The 
commenters expressed concern that a narrow definition could 
inadvertently limit the operational flexibility of EMS agencies, 
particularly in scenarios where EMS operations are conducted from 
multiple locations.
    In response to these concerns, in this final rule, DEA is amending 
the definition of ``stationhouse'' by removing the requirement that a 
stationhouse must house an EMS vehicle, removing the phrase ``for 
emergency response,'' and adding the phrase ``at its premises'' to 
accommodate locations where EMS vehicles are not housed or stored 
indoors. These revisions aim to acknowledge the unique operational 
demands of EMS agencies and ensure that this rule supports the 
efficient and effective delivery of emergency medical services. 
Specifically, the definition of stationhouse is revised to mean an 
enclosed structure within a State where the emergency medical services 
agency is registered, which may house EMS vehicles at its premises, and 
which is actively and primarily being used by that emergency medical 
services agency. DEA acknowledges the concerns raised about the 
limitations of the stationhouse definition and recognizes that it is 
important for EMS agencies to have the flexibility they need to 
effectively serve their communities. DEA's revised definition of 
stationhouse addresses the concerns raised and supports how EMS 
agencies treat patients and provides greater flexibility for EMS 
agencies to operate.
    In response to the commenters' concern that EMS agency facilities 
may at times be used primarily for various operational EMS purposes, 
but not actually ``house'' associated EMS vehicles, DEA removed the 
requirement that a stationhouse must house an EMS vehicle from the 
stationhouse definition. DEA also removed the phrase ``for emergency 
response'' from the stationhouse definition in response to the comments 
received. DEA removed this phrase because in addition to housing EMS 
vehicles, stationhouses may also be used for various non-emergency EMS 
activities such as the storage of medical supplies, controlled 
substances, and equipment; staff training and education; and 
administrative functions essential to EMS operations. These regulatory 
changes provide EMS agencies with greater flexibility in fulfilling the 
operational activities involved in managing emergency medical services 
and response efforts. For this reason, DEA is removing the requirement 
that a stationhouse must house an EMS vehicle and removed the phrase 
``for emergency response'' from the stationhouse definition. Thus, an 
EMS agency may house an EMS vehicle at a stationhouse, however it is 
not required. Additionally, although DEA has removed the phrase ``for 
emergency response,'' DEA is retaining the requirement that a 
stationhouse must actively and primarily be used by the emergency 
medical services agency. This would preclude, for example, an apartment 
or residence from being designated as a stationhouse.
    Further, the addition of the phrase ``at its premises'' to 
accommodate locations where EMS vehicles are not housed or stored 
indoors, allows flexibility for an EMS agency to house a vehicle 
outside of an enclosed registered or designated location. The primary 
goal for this regulatory change is to provide EMS agencies with the 
necessary flexibility to effectively serve the public. EMS agencies 
play a critical role in responding to emergencies and providing life-
saving medical care. However, the housing of EMS vehicles inside of a 
structure posed challenges for EMS agencies, particularly those with 
larger vehicles and limited space. By allowing EMS vehicles to be 
housed at the premises of an enclosed structure, but not necessarily 
within the structure itself, the regulatory changes ensure that 
agencies can maintain their vehicles in a manner that best suits their 
operational needs. While an EMS vehicle may be parked outside of a 
stationhouse, for security purposes, if it stores controlled substances 
it must be locked, with the controlled substances stored in a securely 
locked, substantially constructed cabinet or safe that cannot be 
readily removed.
    While emphasizing the need for flexibility, DEA remains diligent in 
its commitment to preventing diversion and misuse of controlled 
substances. As such, for security purposes and diversion safeguards, an 
enclosed structure is necessary to securely store controlled substances 
at a stationhouse or designated location, if those controlled 
substances are being stored in the stationhouse or designated location, 
but not in an EMS vehicle. An enclosed structure is also required to 
maintain records, ensuring that these items are protected against 
unauthorized access and potential diversion. The regulatory changes are 
designed to create a balance between flexibility and diversion 
safeguards. For instance, although EMS vehicles may now be housed or 
stored at the premises of an enclosed structure, safeguards are in 
place to ensure the security of controlled substances. Specifically, 
EMS vehicles storing controlled substances must be locked when parked 
outside of an enclosed registered or designated location, with the 
controlled substances stored in a securely locked, substantially 
constructed cabinet or safe that cannot be readily removed. This 
measure mitigates the risk of diversion by ensuring that controlled 
substances are inaccessible to unauthorized individuals.

[[Page 5219]]

    The regulatory changes are also driven by a commitment to public 
health and safety. DEA recognizes that EMS agencies often operate in 
dynamic and unpredictable environments where rapid emergency response 
is essential. By providing EMS agencies with greater flexibility in how 
they house their vehicles, the regulatory changes enable them to 
respond more effectively to emergencies, potentially saving lives in 
the process. This public health benefit must be weighed against the 
risk of diversion, and the regulatory changes are designed to strike an 
appropriate balance between these considerations.
    Additionally, DEA is issuing this final rule to amend its 
regulations to make them consistent with the changes made to the CSA by 
the Act and to otherwise implement the Act's requirements. DEA 
recognizes that EMS agencies may at times need to utilize multiple 
locations as a regular part of their distribution networks. This final 
rule does not prevent them from doing so. For this reason and to be 
consistent with the requirements established by the Act, DEA will allow 
a single registration in each State where the agency operates.

Security Controls for Emergency Medical Services Agencies

    Issue: DEA received five comments related to the possibility of 
storing controlled substances in a jump bag (i.e., a mobile medical bag 
that can be removed from the EMS vehicle when responding to an 
emergency) in order for the EMS personnel to have quick access in an 
emergency situation. The comments also requested clarification of 
whether an EMS clinician can keep controlled substances on their 
person. The commenters further stated that many systems currently do 
not possess storage on their vehicles and prefer the EMS clinician 
physically possess a tamper evident package containing the controlled 
substances. These commenters suggested that this creates easier access 
to emergency medications at the patient's side because returning to a 
vehicle is not feasible with time sensitive emergencies like seizures. 
DEA also received a comment seeking clarification on whether the 
security requirements in the proposed rule applied in vehicles or only 
buildings, and a comment suggesting that requiring the use of 
``cumbersome'' safes would interfere with the flexibility EMS agencies 
require.
    DEA Response: The proposed rule offered EMS agencies several 
options for storing and otherwise maintaining the security of 
controlled substances. That portion of the final rule is unchanged: EMS 
agencies would be authorized to store controlled substances at EMS 
registered locations and designated locations inside of a securely 
locked, substantially constructed cabinet or safe that cannot be 
readily removed or an automated dispensing system; inside locked EMS 
vehicles stationed at registered or designated locations; and inside 
EMS vehicles that are actively in use by the agency.
    The final rule incorporates changes to provide flexibility for EMS 
agencies driven by the comments received. Except when EMS personnel are 
carrying controlled substances on their person or in a jump bag as set 
forth in Sec.  1301.80(d), a registered EMS agency must store 
controlled substances in a storage component that is identified as a 
securely locked, substantially constructed cabinet or safe that cannot 
be readily removed; which is located at a secured location specified in 
Sec.  1301.80(a)(1) through (4); or an automated dispensing machine as 
defined in Sec.  1300.01. In addition, an emergency medical services 
vehicle storing controlled substances must be locked when parked 
outside of an enclosed registered or designated location, or when it is 
actively in use, but unattended during non-emergency stops. An 
emergency medical services vehicle storing controlled substances does 
not need to be locked only if it is parked within an enclosed 
registered or designated location, it is at the scene of an emergency, 
or emergency services personnel are in attendance. Personnel are 
considered to be in attendance when personnel are physically present 
and able to monitor the vehicle; such as when the vehicle is traveling 
to or from the scene of an emergency, or it is at public displays or 
educational events. The presence of EMS personnel monitoring the 
vehicle mitigates the risk of diversion by ensuring that controlled 
substances are inaccessible to unauthorized individuals.
    DEA recognizes the different and unique circumstances of EMS 
agencies and the practical issues presented in an emergency response. 
In response to the comments related to carrying controlled substances 
in a jump bag, DEA revised Sec.  1301.80, adding new section (d). 
Controlled substances are not considered ``stored'' when they are being 
dispensed during an emergency response, or when EMS personnel are 
preparing them to be dispensed to respond to a particular emergency. 
Thus, this new provision allows EMS personnel to carry (as opposed to 
store) controlled substances on their person or in a jump bag as long 
as they are currently engaged in responding to an emergency. The goal 
is to allow personnel to have immediate and ready access to controlled 
substances to prepare for and provide emergency services during their 
active duties. The controlled substances must be returned to a storage 
component as described in Sec.  1301.80(c)(1), either inside of the 
emergency medical services vehicle or at the registered or designated 
location, when emergency medical services agency personnel are not 
currently engaged in responding to an emergency, for example at the end 
of the shift and when the EMS vehicle is actively in use but on call 
and unattended (i.e., such as when personnel stop for a break or 
meals). Additionally, EMS personnel may store controlled substances in 
a jump bag, so long as that jump bag itself is stored within a secure 
cabinet or safe.
    Except when emergency medical services personnel are carrying 
controlled substances on their person or in a jump bag as set forth in 
(d), a registered emergency medical services agency must store 
controlled substances in a storage component that is identified as: (1) 
a securely locked, substantially constructed cabinet or safe that 
cannot be readily removed; which is located at a secured location 
specified in Sec.  1301.80(a)(1) through (4); or (2) an automated 
dispensing machine as defined in Sec.  1300.01; which is located at a 
secured location specified in 1301.80(a)(1) and (2); installed and 
operated by the emergency medical services agency; not used to directly 
dispense controlled substances to an ultimate user; and is in 
compliance with the requirements of State law.
    For purposes of this rule, as described in the definition for 
actively in use, ``on call'' means that the EMS vehicle and its 
personnel are ready and available to respond, but may not be responding 
to an emergency at that precise moment. Examples of ``on call'' would 
include providing standby medical coverage for public events; 
participating in educational events; or parking and leaving the vehicle 
unattended, such as when EMS personnel stop for lunch or a break.
    The requirement that an EMS agency use a substantially constructed 
cabinet or safe to store controlled substances on an EMS vehicle 
parallels the security requirements for other registrants. See e.g., 21 
CFR 1301.72(e), 1301.75(b). The requirement that an EMS vehicle contain 
some sort of locked cabinet or safe to store controlled substances that 
is not readily removable should not be onerous, even if some EMS 
vehicles will need to have such storage installed. DEA believes that 
such a requirement is necessary to prevent diversion while controlled 
substances remain in an EMS

[[Page 5220]]

vehicle, including when an EMS vehicle is actively in use and left 
unattended. And Congress clearly contemplated that some such 
restrictions on storage would be necessary, expressly giving DEA 
authority to issue regulations regarding ``the storage of controlled 
substances . . . in emergency medical service vehicles.'' 21 U.S.C. 
823(k)(11)(B); see also 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(6)(C)(ii) (controlled 
substances may be stored by EMS agencies ``under circumstances that 
provide for security of the control substances consistent with the 
requirements established by regulations of the Attorney General.''). 
DEA expects most currently unregistered EMS agencies to be operating in 
a similar manner as registered EMS agencies, and such EMS agencies are 
already in compliance with the minimum physical security requirements. 
Therefore, DEA expects the physical security requirements of this rule, 
on balance, to be a codification of existing practice that will impose 
minimal costs.

Recordkeeping Requirements

    Issue: Roughly thirty commenters, most of whom are members of the 
National Association of EMS Physicians (NAEMSP), strongly urged DEA to 
remove the requirement for the medical director or authorizing medical 
professional to provide initials in the record in proposed Sec.  
1304.27(a). The members of the NAEMSP further noted that the standard 
electronic health records utilized for emergency medical services do 
not routinely provide a means by which the medical director can initial 
the chart.
    Additionally, many commenters suggested that getting the medical 
director to initial every time a controlled substance is administered 
would create an undue burden on the EMS system and the medical 
professionals overseeing them. The commenters further noted that the 
law already requires that there be an existing protocol or verbal order 
in place providing the paramedic permission to administer the 
medication. Therefore, the commenters stated that physically or 
electronically tracking down the medical professional giving the order 
is impractical and problematic.
    DEA Response: DEA works diligently to achieve operational 
efficiencies. The goal of this rule is to create more consistent usage 
and tracking nationally with respect to controlled substances for EMS 
agencies. Further, by requiring recordkeeping, this rule provides 
accountability, consistency, and clarity to the EMS community.
    One important point of clarification: proposed Sec.  1304.27(a) 
stated that the records of registered EMS agencies would be required to 
include ``initials'' of the person who administered the controlled 
substance, of the medical director or authorizing medical professional 
issuing the standing or verbal order, and of the person who disposed of 
a controlled substance (if applicable) and of the witness to the 
disposal. The proposed rule, however, did not specify whether the 
relevant individual had to personally write or input their initials, or 
whether records merely had to reflect those initials, even if written 
or entered by someone else.
    The commenters objecting to this requirement generally based their 
objections on the understanding that the medical director or 
authorizing medical professional issuing the standing or verbal order 
must personally initial each record. That is, they do not necessarily 
object to the requirement that the records identify the medical 
director or authorizing medical professional issuing the relevant 
standing or verbal order, but they do object to the additional burden 
that asking such directors or professionals to personally initial each 
record would place on EMS agency operations or to the incompatibility 
of this approach with their recordkeeping systems.
    DEA, however, did not intend in proposed Sec.  1304.27(a) to 
require that the person who administered the substance, the medical 
director or authorizing medical professional who issued the standing or 
verbal order, the person who disposed of the substance (if applicable), 
or the witness to the disposal (if applicable) personally initial each 
record. It is enough for DEA's purposes that the records clearly and 
accurately reflect their identities to allow DEA to discern under whose 
authority the controlled substance was administered. In many 
situations, the best way to ensure that these records are accurately 
maintained may be for the EMS agency to have individuals personally 
initial these records themselves. But, as commenters highlight, there 
are situations in which this is practically difficult, and thus DEA is 
not requiring such personal initialing.
    Accordingly, to further clarify that personal initialing is not 
required in this context, DEA is revising Sec.  1304.27(a) in this 
final rule. Instead of referring to ``initials,'' this provision now 
refers to the ``last name or initials'' of the relevant people: the 
person who administered the substance, the medical director or 
authorizing medical professional who issued the standing or verbal 
order, the person who disposed of the substance (if applicable), and 
the witness to the disposal (if applicable). The medical director or 
other authorizing medical professional is not required to initial the 
records personally.
    DEA also does not believe records need to specifically reference 
the full name of the medical director or authorizing medical 
professional that issued that order for that particular patient. If the 
goal is to create efficiency, then writing the full name of the medical 
director or authorizing medical professional would create additional 
work and time for EMS personnel, and initials should generally suffice 
to identify the relevant individual. For this reason, while a 
registrant could satisfy this provision by writing out a full name, DEA 
also will maintain the option that EMS agencies only record these 
individuals' last name or initials.
    Issue: Several commenters expressed other concerns related to the 
proposed 21 CFR 1304.27(a) recordkeeping requirements, viewing them as 
duplicative or inefficient. In addition to the requirement of initials 
discussed previously, proposed Sec.  1304.27(a) would have required any 
EMS personnel who dispose of or administer controlled substances to a 
patient in the course of providing emergency medical care to record the 
name of the controlled substance(s) and detailed information about the 
circumstances surrounding the administration of the controlled 
substance(s) (e.g., name of the substance, date dispensed, 
identification of the patient). The commenters agree that EMS agencies 
should maintain a record of all standing or verbal order protocols, but 
urge DEA to not create new recordkeeping requirements that are 
duplicative of systems that are currently in place.
    Similarly, commenters stated that the Patient Care Record (PCR) 
should be sufficient as it has the required additional record 
requirement with the name of the medical director who issued the 
standing order or the provider who gave a verbal order. Multiple 
commenters stated that EMS providers are already required to complete 
PCRs on all patient encounters and include all the information that is 
being proposed by this regulation and that therefore having a separate 
recordkeeping system to meet DEA's recordkeeping requirement is overly 
burdensome and redundant.
    DEA Response: Recordkeeping is necessary to allow DEA to conduct 
meaningful investigations and guard against diversion. It is not DEA's 
intent to place an undue burden on the public. DEA considers the burden 
on the public in every rulemaking process by

[[Page 5221]]

performing a thorough economic analysis prior to publication.
    Contrary to the commenter's suggestions, the recordkeeping 
provisions of this rule does not impose any additional requirements on 
EMS agencies other than what they are currently required to do. The 
recordkeeping requirements outlined in this rule codify existing 
practices. EMS agencies are required to record the details of any 
administration, disposal, acquisition, distribution, or delivery of 
controlled substances and make these records readily retrievable. DEA 
believes that EMS agencies are already collecting and storing these 
records as a normal course of their business operations.
    As explained in the regulatory analyses section below, DEA 
conducted an analysis of the statutory and regulatory changes of this 
rule and concluded that benefits of the rule are expected to be 
generated by reducing regulatory uncertainty among EMS agencies and 
personnel regarding the administration, transfer, and disposal of 
controlled substances. Furthermore, DEA believes that because EMS 
agencies are already collecting and storing these records as a normal 
course of their business operations, fulfilling the requirements of 
Sec.  1304.27(a) should not create substantial additional burden.
    Issue: NAEMSP members have stated that, instead of the requirements 
in proposed Sec.  1304.27(a), including the following recordkeeping 
requirements in the final rule will be far more effective in ensuring 
compliance and oversight: 1. for standing orders, require that the 
record specifically reference the standing order utilized to authorize 
the administration of the controlled substance and that the EMS Agency 
maintain appropriate copies of these standing orders, to include the 
name of the authorizing EMS medical director; 2. for verbal orders, 
require the record to specifically reference the name of medical 
director or authorizing medical professional that issued that 
particular verbal order for that particular patient; 3. require that 
administration of controlled substances be included in the agency's 
quality assurance or improvement program which is overseen by the 
medical director to ensure retrospective compliance on a systemic 
agency level; and 4. require an internal audit to be completed at least 
annually by the agency and reviewed by the medical director to ensure 
compliance with standing and verbal orders in the administration of 
controlled substances. The NAEMSP members also added that the National 
Emergency Medical Services Information System (NEMSIS) already includes 
the name of the authorizing EMS medical director or medical 
professional that issued the standing or verbal order as a data element 
in the EMS electronic health record. The NAEMSP members further stated 
that for verbal orders, the name of the physician or authorizing 
medical professional is entered as well.
    DEA Response: DEA appreciates these suggestions. With respect to 
standing and verbal orders, while initials should generally be adequate 
to identify the individual who gave the order, DEA has no objection to 
EMS agencies listing last names instead of initials and has changed the 
regulatory text in this rule accordingly. Thus, in Sec.  1304.27(a), 
DEA has changed the requirement that EMS agency records reflect certain 
individuals' ``initials'' to allow agencies to instead record a ``last 
name or initials.''
    For maintenance of standing orders, the Act (in 21 U.S.C. 
823(k)(13)(M)) and proposed 21 CFR 1300.06(b)(13) already require that 
a standing order be a ``written medical protocol'' containing a 
determination by the medical director. To satisfy this requirement, an 
EMS agency already will have to retain a copy of the standing order 
that indicates the medical director's authorization. EMS agencies are 
required to maintain complete and accurate records of patient care, 
including any orders or protocols used in treatment. Retaining a copy 
of standing orders ensures compliance with established standards of 
care. No more is necessary.
    NAEMSP members' suggestions regarding quality assurance or 
improvement programs and internal audits provide potentially useful 
ideas for how EMS agencies may ensure the integrity of their controlled 
substance dispensing and maintain effective controls against diversion. 
And DEA agrees that medical directors are responsible for monitoring 
the dispensing of controlled substances by EMS personnel to ensure that 
their orders are not being abused to divert controlled substances. DEA 
has concluded, however, that EMS agencies can accomplish this in a 
number of ways, and that specifically requiring the recommended 
programs and audits is beyond the scope of these regulations.
    DEA is aware that NEMSIS provides a framework for collecting, 
storing, and sharing standardized EMS data from States nationwide. DEA 
must ensure its ability to investigate registrants' dispensing of 
controlled substances as appropriate. DEA may consider the efficacy of 
NEMSIS-compliant patient care reporting software to fulfill the 
recordkeeping requirement to ensure compliance with standing and verbal 
orders in the administration of controlled substances.
    Issue: An anonymous commenter stated that proposed Sec.  1304.27 is 
sensible in theory, but in reality, EMS work is often chaotic with 
back-to-back calls and distractions between patients. This commenter 
further stated that it may be nearly impossible for an individual to 
collect and retain such detailed information as the names of those who 
are administered critical care involving controlled substances, beyond 
the timeframe of the event, so to be recorded properly under proposed 
Sec.  1304.27. This commenter was concerned about the protections that 
will be put in place for EMS workers who are unable to provide this 
information due to extenuating circumstances or who make mistakes in 
their recordkeeping after a mass casualty.
    DEA Response: DEA understands the need to balance the prevention of 
diversion of controlled substances with the important ability for EMS 
agencies to dispense controlled substances in the field to patients in 
need, in challenging circumstances. Maintaining this balance is the 
precise purpose of the proposed rule. DEA regulations have always 
required that all registrants maintain effective recordkeeping 
requirements to prevent diversion of controlled substances and tracking 
if diversion does occur.
    Thus, DEA cannot remove the requirement of recordkeeping here, 
especially given the increased potential for diversion from EMS 
vehicles operating in the field, as opposed to in a secure environment, 
and where unregistered EMS personnel are relying on the authority of 
others to administer controlled substances. That said, DEA considers 
all relevant circumstances when assessing the severity of recordkeeping 
violations by registrants and recognizes that some EMS agencies may 
have occasional difficulty fully complying with the requirements of 
Sec.  1304.27. Given the importance of these requirements, however, DEA 
concludes that such difficulties are not a sufficient reason to 
eliminate them.
    Issue: In contrast to the previously noted comments, a commenter 
suggested that DEA should consider stringent recordkeeping requirements 
when allowing administration of controlled substances without direct 
oversight due to EMS personnel's lack of independent authority to 
administer controlled substances.
    DEA Response: DEA agrees that the unique circumstances of EMS

[[Page 5222]]

administrations--and the heightened diversion risk associated with 
these circumstances--require careful recordkeeping to ensure that EMS 
agencies can maintain effective controls against diversion. As already 
discussed, however, such concerns must be balanced against the need to 
avoid overburdening EMS agencies and allowing them to operate 
effectively. DEA has concluded that the recordkeeping requirements in 
this rule strike that balance, ensuring DEA investigators have access 
to the information they need without imposing unnecessary burdens on 
EMS agencies.

Educational Training

    Issue: Three commenters raised concern about EMS personnel having 
the appropriate training. One commenter noted that the proposed rule 
does not address the educational requirements related to delivering 
emergency medication without physician supervision. This commenter 
mentioned that there have been instances of over-medicating a patient 
in the field resulting in death and stated that the proposed rule is 
widening the scope of authority without mention of proposed additional 
education on the proper weight-based dosage of schedule II to IV drugs. 
Another commenter stated that, given that there are large ranges of 
experience and knowledge among EMS personnel, ranging from volunteers 
to veteran paramedics, effective certification and safety parameters 
that EMS personnel are expected to uphold in the course of their 
training and regular certification renewals should be put in place.
    DEA Response: DEA agrees an EMS agency should ensure that its 
personnel are properly trained before allowing them to dispense 
controlled substances under the agency registration. Neither the CSA 
nor the Act, however, authorizes DEA to set medical training 
requirements or other medical qualifications for EMS personnel. Such 
requirements may be set by other Federal, State, or local authorities. 
Thus, the final rule (Sec.  1300.06(b)(6)), following the Act (21 
U.S.C. 823(k)(13)(E)), requires EMS personnel administering controlled 
substances to be ``licensed or certified by the State in which the 
professional practices,'' but does not itself set educational or other 
certification requirements for these professionals.

Other Comments

    Issue: A commenter stated that EMS agencies located near State 
borders respond to emergencies in neighboring States. This commenter 
asked if EMS agencies could operate in these neighboring States without 
registering in them.
    DEA Response: EMS agencies that wish to operate in multiple States 
must register with DEA in each State in which they operate. The Act 
itself indicates this requirement when it directs DEA to allow an EMS 
agency ``the option of a single registration in each State where the 
agency administers controlled substances in lieu of requiring a 
separate registration for each location of the emergency medical 
services agency.'' 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(2) (emphasis added). Thus, the Act 
removes the requirement of 21 U.S.C. 822(e)(1) and 21 CFR 1301.12(a) 
that an EMS registrant separately register at each principal place of 
business or professional practice for which the EMS agency dispenses 
controlled substances. But it retains the requirement that registrants 
separately register in each State in which they dispense controlled 
substances. Because DEA registrations are based on compliance with 
applicable State and local laws, including State licenses to dispense 
controlled substances, a practitioner must maintain a DEA registration 
in each State in which the practitioner dispenses controlled 
substances. 21 U.S.C. 823.
    Likewise, the Act directly ties DEA's registration of an EMS agency 
to such State licensing, directing DEA to register an EMS agency if the 
agency demonstrates that ``it is authorized to conduct [emergency 
medical services] under the laws of each State in which the agency 
practices'' and the registration is not inconsistent with the Act or 
the public interest. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(1). DEA thus relies on State 
licensing bodies to determine that EMS agencies are qualified to 
perform emergency medical services. State authority to conduct these 
activities only confers rights and privileges within the issuing State; 
consequently, a DEA registration based on a State license cannot itself 
authorize controlled substance dispensing outside of the State. This 
aspect of the CSA and DEA regulations also helps to ensure that each 
State retains the primary authority to regulate the practice of 
medicine within its borders.
    Issue: A comment requested additional information on how EMS 
agencies are to dispose of controlled substances under the rule.
    DEA Response: DEA regulations regarding the disposal of controlled 
substances are contained in 21 CFR part 1317. The purpose of the rules 
set forth in 1317 is to provide prompt, safe, and effective disposal 
methods while providing effective controls against the diversion of 
controlled substances. In Sec.  1304.27, this rule sets certain 
recordkeeping requirements for the disposal of controlled substances by 
EMS agencies, but does not otherwise alter the existing regulatory 
requirements for disposing of controlled substances. Any broader 
changes to DEA's disposal requirements are outside the scope of this 
rule.
    Issue: A commenter requested that DEA clarify the extent of 
proposed 21 CFR 1307.14, which would allow an EMS vehicle to restock at 
a hospital under certain circumstances. The commenter, noting EMS 
vehicles may operate at significant distances from the hospital whose 
registration they are using, asked DEA to indicate whether such an EMS 
vehicle may only restock at the hospital under whose registration they 
are operating or may also restock at other hospitals. Another commenter 
indicated that many EMS vehicles restock at hospitals far from their 
registered location as a matter of course under State regulations and 
objected to any further restrictions on their ability to do so.
    DEA Response: Nothing in 21 CFR 1307.14 or 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(8), the 
statutory text it implements, limits the hospitals at which EMS 
vehicles may restock to those under whose registration they are 
operating. Thus, an EMS agency satisfying the conditions of Sec.  
1307.14 may restock their vehicle at one hospital even if they are 
operating under the registration of another hospital. DEA has concluded 
the proposed regulatory text in Sec.  1307.14 is sufficiently clear as 
is, and that adding this clarification to the regulatory text would 
unnecessarily complicate it. Moreover, the requirements of Sec.  
1307.14 are not onerous, merely requiring appropriate recordkeeping to 
document the restocking and notification to the EMS agency's registered 
location. Thus, DEA has not changed Sec.  1307.14 in this final rule.
    Issue: An anonymous commenter had a question regarding the 
exemption from DEA application fees for EMS agencies. This commenter 
understood the proposed rule as exempting fire department EMS from 
paying the application fees, but not EMS-only agencies, and asked why 
this was so.
    DEA Response: Pursuant to the existing provisions of 21 CFR 
1301.21(a)(1), ``any hospital or other institution which is operated by 
an agency of the United States, . . . of any State, or any political 
subdivision or agency thereof'' is exempt from application fees. If an 
EMS agency were operated by the fire department, and the

[[Page 5223]]

fire department is operated by the local government, it would be exempt 
from application fees. Even if the EMS agency is not operated by a 
government fire department, if the EMS agency itself is operated by the 
local government, it would also be exempt from application fees. A 
privately-owned EMS agency, which is not operated by the local 
government, is therefore not exempt from paying application fees due to 
its non-governmental affiliation.
    Issue: A healthcare management student expressed a concern 
regarding EMS agencies who work under a parent hospital's registration. 
This commenter stated that EMS agencies working under hospital 
registration should be required to file for their own registration, 
rather than operating under a hospital's registration as allowed by 
proposed Sec.  1301.20(a)(2). This commenter believes that an EMS 
agency working under a parent company's registration is not receiving 
proper evaluation by DEA.
    DEA Response: DEA has no discretion regarding this requirement. The 
CSA, as amended by the Act, expressly allows hospital-based EMS 
agencies to operate under the hospital's registration rather than 
obtaining their own separate registration. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(3). The 
rule simply adds Sec.  1301.20(a)(2) to DEA regulations to reflect this 
statutory allowance. Moreover, as explained in the NPRM, even before 
the Act's passage, DEA had historically allowed EMS agencies to operate 
under hospitals' registrations rather than separately registering.\8\ 
Based on this experience, DEA has found allowing hospitals to extend 
their registration to certain EMS agencies to be consistent with the 
public health and safety. This approach still allows DEA to monitor an 
EMS agency's dispensing of controlled substances and enforce DEA 
regulations through the hospital's registration. And it is in the best 
interest of the public to allow certain EMS agencies to operate under 
the registration of hospitals for purposes of efficiency and reducing 
operation costs.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \8\ Registering Emergency Medical Services Agencies Under the 
Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act of 2017, 85 
FR 62634, 62637 (Oct. 5, 2020).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Issue: Another commenter expressed a concern about proposed Sec.  
1307.15, which would allow EMS agencies to deliver controlled 
substances to each other with the written approval of the Special Agent 
in Charge (SAC) for the area or DEA Headquarters during shortages, 
public health emergencies, or mass casualty events. The commenter 
stated that this proposed provision is confusing and did not explain 
why such approval is needed.
    DEA Response: Under most circumstances, one hospital or EMS agency 
cannot distribute controlled substances to another hospital or EMS 
agency because they are registered with DEA to dispense controlled 
substances to patients, not to distribute them. See, e.g., 21 U.S.C. 
822(b) (registered persons only authorized to engage in activities 
permitted by their registration); 21 CFR 1301.13(e)(1)(ii) 
(establishing separate registration category for distributors); 21 CFR 
1307.11 (authorizing practitioners registered to dispense to also 
distribute small amounts of controlled substances to one another under 
certain conditions without registering as distributors). By generally 
restricting the distribution of controlled substances to registered 
distributors, the CSA and DEA regulations allow DEA to better monitor 
the movement of controlled substances through the closed system of 
distribution and detect diversion of those substances.
    The Act, however, as codified at 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(11)(C), 
specifically authorizes DEA to issue regulations allowing hospitals and 
EMS agencies to deliver controlled substances to one another during 
shortages, public health emergencies, or mass casualty events. This 
rule does so in 21 CFR 1307.15 and makes written approval from the SAC 
for the area or DEA Headquarters a condition of this allowance.
    This approval requirement serves two primary purposes. First, as 
noted, the Act only authorized this allowance in limited circumstances: 
shortages, public health emergencies, and mass casualty events. 
Requiring SAC or Headquarters approval allows DEA to keep this 
allowance appropriately limited to the circumstances specified in the 
Act.
    Second, as explained above, generally restricting distribution to 
registered distributors enables DEA to better monitor distribution and 
prevent diversion--because DEA is aware which registrants will be 
distributing controlled substances. Requiring written approval fulfills 
a similar purpose: hospitals and EMS agencies will be informing DEA 
that they are also going to be engaged in temporary distributing, 
thereby better enabling DEA to monitor that distributing and prevent 
diversion.
    To the degree that there is any confusion about how to contact 
Headquarters or the relevant SAC, contact information is available on 
the DEA Diversion Control Division's website, 
<a href="http://www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov">www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov</a>.
    Further, although the existence of a mass casualty incident is also 
relevant to whether controlled substances may be administered pursuant 
to a verbal order, see 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(4)(B), 21 CFR 1306.07, 
Headquarters or SAC approval is not required before a medical director 
or authorizing medical professional may issue such a mass casualty 
incident verbal order. Headquarters or SAC confirmation of a mass 
casualty is only necessary to make deliveries pursuant to 21 CFR 
1307.15.
    Finally, DEA acknowledges that restocking EMS vehicles with 
controlled substances is a concern for some commenters, particularly 
regarding the time constraints EMS personnel face after emergency 
responses. Under Sec.  1307.14(a) of this final rule, a registered EMS 
agency may receive controlled substances from a hospital for purposes 
of restocking an EMS vehicle following an emergency response, and 
without being subject to the requirements of Sec.  1305.03 of this 
chapter, provided all of the following criteria are met: (1) the 
registered or designated location of the agency operating the vehicle 
maintains the record of such receipt in accordance with Sec.  
1304.27(b) of this chapter; (2) the hospital maintains a record of such 
delivery to the agency in accordance with Sec.  1304.22(c) of this 
chapter; and (3) if the vehicle is primarily situated at a designated 
location of an emergency medical services agency, such location 
notifies the registered location of the agency within 72 hours of the 
vehicle receiving the controlled substances.
    Issue: Multiple commenters voiced concern that the proposed changes 
would hinder effectiveness in providing services to underserved 
smaller, rural, and urban communities. These commenters stated that the 
proposed changes would cause a significant operating cost increase to 
EMS agencies that are already on extremely tight budgets and struggling 
to stay afloat.
    DEA Response: DEA appreciates the concerns raised by commenters 
that the proposed changes may hinder the effectiveness of the rule in 
providing services to underserved small, rural, and urban communities. 
The intent of the rule is to increase access to these communities, 
while ensuring that certain recordkeeping and security requirements are 
met to prevent the diversion of controlled substances. The need to 
ensure that individuals in the underserved communities and remote 
locations receive the care they need must be balanced against security 
and recordkeeping requirements to ensure that the controlled substances 
are not diverted for illicit use.
    The specific reasons commenters gave for why the proposed rule 
would allegedly hinder the ability of EMS

[[Page 5224]]

agencies to serve these communities include the definition of 
stationhouse, difficulty getting a medical director to personally 
initial records or returning to the hospital to restock, and stringent 
security requirements.
    Some commenters were concerned that the definition of 
``stationhouse'' would not apply to some structures used in rural or 
urban settings because the structures did not house EMS vehicles. Other 
commenters noted that EMS vehicles operating in rural environments far 
from their registered location may have difficulty getting a medical 
director to personally initial records or returning to the hospital at 
which they are registered to restock.
    In this final rule, as discussed above, DEA is amending the 
definition of ``stationhouse'' to provide clarity by removing the 
requirement that a stationhouse must house an EMS vehicle, removing the 
phrase ``for emergency response,'' and adding the phrase ``at its 
premises'' to accommodate locations where EMS vehicles are not housed 
or stored indoors. These revisions aim to acknowledge the unique 
operational demands of EMS agencies and ensure that this rule supports 
the efficient and effective delivery of emergency medical services. DEA 
acknowledges the concerns raised about the limitations of the 
stationhouse definition and recognizes that it is important for EMS 
agencies to have the flexibility they need to effectively serve their 
communities.
    The addition of the phrase ``at its premises'' is intended to 
accommodate locations where EMS vehicles are not housed or stored 
indoors and allows flexibility for an EMS agency to house a vehicle 
outside of an enclosed registered or designated location. However, an 
EMS vehicle may be parked outside of a stationhouse, but for security 
purposes, if it stores controlled substances, it must be locked with 
the controlled substances stored in a securely locked cabinet or safe. 
The primary goal for this regulatory change is to provide EMS agencies 
with the necessary flexibility to effectively serve the public. EMS 
agencies play a critical role in responding to emergencies and 
providing life-saving medical care. However, the housing of EMS 
vehicles inside of a structure posed challenges for EMS agencies, 
particularly those with larger vehicles and limited space. By allowing 
EMS vehicles to be housed at the premises of an enclosed structure, but 
not necessarily within the structure itself, the regulatory changes 
ensure that agencies can maintain their vehicles in a manner that best 
suits their operational needs.
    The final rule will also allow EMS agencies to administer 
controlled substances via standing or verbal orders from the medical 
director, thereby eliminating the requirement to personally initial 
records.
    With respect to commenters' request for more flexible security 
requirements, the goal of this final rule is to provide flexibility for 
EMS agencies to operate. DEA recognizes the different and unique 
circumstances of EMS agencies and the practical issues presented in an 
emergency response. In response to the commenters' concern about 
flexible security requirements, this final rule will allow EMS 
personnel to carry controlled substances on their person or in a jump 
bag while responding to an emergency to have immediate and ready access 
to controlled substances while providing emergency services. The final 
rule also recognizes the critical need for EMS personnel to have swift 
and easy access to controlled substances during emergencies by allowing 
EMS personnel to carry controlled substances on their person or in a 
jump bag during emergencies. This provision ensures immediate access to 
necessary medications, enhancing the ability to provide rapid and 
effective care. It maintains strict security protocols to prevent 
diversion and supports the overall goal of improving patient outcomes 
in emergency situations. While the rule allows for portability, it 
maintains strict security measures. Controlled substances must be 
returned to a storage component consistent with the requirements of 21 
CFR 1301.80(c) when EMS personnel are not currently engaged in 
responding to an emergency. This ensures compliance with regulatory 
requirements and minimizes the risk of diversion.
    Additionally, the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) requires 
agencies to analyze options for regulatory relief of small entities 
unless it can certify that the rule will not have a significant impact 
on a substantial number of small entities. For purposes of the RFA, 
small entities include small businesses, nonprofit organizations, and 
small governmental jurisdictions. DEA evaluated the impact of this rule 
on small entities, such as the small rural or urban EMS agencies, and 
concluded that the final rule will not have a significant impact on 
small entities as a whole.

Out of Scope Comments

    DEA appreciates all comments that were received during the comment 
period. DEA received two comments which were outside of the scope of 
this rule. These comments did not mention content related to actual 
changes of the proposed regulatory text. An anonymous commenter made a 
general complaint about alleged evidence of voter fraud and a State 
representative's alleged deceptive voter registration. This comment was 
clearly outside the scope of the rulemaking and therefore not 
addressed. Another commenter sought clarification of certain provisions 
within State legislation regarding EMS agencies, which is also outside 
the scope of this rule.

III. Section-by-Section Summary of the Final Rule

    The purposes and functions of this rule were discussed in the NPRM. 
The Act amended the CSA to add regulatory provisions pertaining to the 
handling of controlled substances by EMS professionals, and the 
majority of the provisions of this final rule merely reiterate those 
statutory requirements. The remainder of this rule includes changes to 
the registration, security, recordkeeping, inventory, and administering 
requirements for EMS agencies, which are discussed below.
    Consistent with the Act, DEA is implementing regulations to 
explicitly include EMS agencies handling controlled substances as 
registrants under the CSA \9\ and to delineate the security and 
recordkeeping requirements for EMS registrants who store, transport, 
and administer controlled substances. DEA is also implementing 
regulations to codify the Act's provisions that allow EMS personnel to 
administer controlled substances in schedules II-V outside of the 
physical presence of a medical director or authorizing medical 
professional in the course of providing emergency medical services if 
authorized in the State in which the medical service occurs and 
pursuant to a standing order or verbal order.\10\ In

[[Page 5225]]

addition, DEA is implementing regulations that codify the Act's 
amendments allowing EMS agencies to receive controlled substances from 
hospitals for the purpose of restocking EMS vehicles, and allowing EMS 
agencies and hospitals to deliver controlled substances to each other 
in the event of shortages of such controlled substances, public health 
emergencies, or mass casualty events.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \9\ Consistent with 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(3), DEA is implementing 
regulations that will continue to allow an EMS agency based in a 
hospital that is registered under Sec.  1301.13 to use the 
hospital's registration to administer controlled substances, without 
being separately registered as an EMS agency.
    \10\ 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(13)(M) defines standing order as a written 
medical protocol in which a medical director determines in advance 
the medical criteria that must be met before administering 
controlled substances to individuals in need of emergency medical 
services. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(13)(N) defines verbal order as an oral 
directive that is given through any method of communication 
including by radio or telephone, directly to an emergency medical 
services professional, to contemporaneously administer a controlled 
substance to individuals in need of emergency medical services 
outside the physical presence of the medical director or authorizing 
medical professional.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    In this manner, DEA is bringing its regulations into conformity 
with the Act's amendments to the CSA. In particular, 21 CFR 1300.06 
adds 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(13)'s new definitions of relevant terms to DEA 
regulations. Section 1301.12 is being amended to reflect the statutory 
amendments of sections 823(k)(2) and 823(k)(5), and Sec.  1301.13 is 
being amended to bring it into conformity with section 823(k)(1). 
Section 1301.20(a) is adapted directly from the statutory amendment, 
specifically from section 823(k)(1)-(3). The provisions of Sec.  
1301.80(a) add provisions from section 823(k)(6). Section 1304.03(j) is 
taken from section 823(k)(9)(A). Section 1306.07(g) adds the provisions 
of sections 823(k)(4) and 823(k)(10)(D) to DEA regulations, while Sec.  
1307.14 adds those of section 823(k)(8).
    Not all of the proposed amendments to DEA regulations, however, 
directly codify the Act's statutory amendments in DEA regulations. Some 
of the changes--specifically, Sec. Sec.  1301.20(b), 1301.80(b), 
1304.03(i), 1304.04, 1304.27, 1306.07(h), and 1307.15--implement the 
purposes of the Act more broadly, consistent with the Administrator's 
authority to promulgate regulations under 21 U.S.C. 821, 21 U.S.C. 
823(k)(11), and 21 U.S.C. 871(b).
    The regulatory text in this final rule is identical to that in the 
proposed rule aside from the following changes:
    <bullet> The definition for ``actively in use'' and ``on call'' 
were added to 21 CFR 1300.06. The definition of ``actively in use'' was 
added to provide clarity under 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(6)(C)(ii) as to when an 
EMS vehicle used by an agency may store controlled substances. This 
definition would include instances when an EMS vehicle is responding to 
an emergency, is transporting patients, or is on call. ``On call'' 
means that personnel are ready and available to respond, but may not be 
responding to an emergency at that precise moment. EMS vehicles and 
personnel are considered ``on call'' when they are prepared to respond 
to emergencies, even if they are not actively engaged in an emergency 
call. This includes periods when the vehicle is on standby for the next 
call, which may include waiting in designated standby areas, 
maintaining readiness for deployment. Examples of ``on call'' also 
include, but are not limited to, participating in public safety or 
educational events, and parking and leaving the vehicle unattended, 
during lunch or a break, for example. The aim is to delineate when an 
EMS vehicle is considered engaging in an emergency response or waiting 
for the next call.
    <bullet> In 21 CFR 1300.06, DEA is amending the definition of 
``stationhouse'' to provide clarity by removing the requirement that a 
stationhouse must house an EMS vehicle, removing the phrase ``for 
emergency response,'' and adding the phrase ``at its premises'' to 
accommodate locations where EMS vehicles are not housed or stored 
indoors. ``At the premises'' specifically refers to the stationhouse 
premises, where EMS vehicles are parked outside of a stationhouse. This 
includes areas directly associated with the stationhouse where EMS 
activities are conducted. DEA also removed the phrase ``for emergency 
response'' from the stationhouse definition because stationhouses may 
also be used for various non-emergency EMS activities such as the 
storage of medical supplies, controlled substances, and equipment; 
staff training and education; and administrative functions essential to 
EMS operations. These revisions aim to acknowledge the unique 
operational demands of EMS agencies and ensure that this rule supports 
the efficient and effective delivery of emergency medical services. 
Specifically, the definition of stationhouse is revised to mean an 
enclosed structure within a State where the emergency medical services 
agency is registered and may house EMS vehicles at its premises and is 
actively and primarily being used by that emergency medical services 
agency.
    <bullet> The provisions outlined in Sec.  1301.80(b) specify when 
an EMS vehicle storing controlled substances must be locked. An 
emergency medical services vehicle storing controlled substances must 
be locked when parked outside of an enclosed registered or designated 
location, or when it is actively in use and left unattended during non-
emergency stops. An emergency medical services vehicle storing 
controlled substances does not need to be locked if: (1) It is parked 
within an enclosed registered or designated location; (2) It is at the 
scene of an emergency; or (3) Emergency services personnel are in 
attendance. If an EMS vehicle is not at a registered or designated 
location of the agency, or traveling from, or returning to, a 
registered or designated location of the agency in the course of 
responding to an emergency, the Act and Sec.  1301.80(a) require that 
it must be ``actively in use'' in order to store controlled substances.
    <bullet> Sec.  1301.80(d) will allow EMS personnel to carry (as 
opposed to store) controlled substances on their person or in a jump 
bag that remains in their possession at all times while responding to 
an emergency. When EMS personnel are not responding to an emergency, 
the controlled substances must be returned to a storage component 
consistent with the requirements of 21 CFR 1301.80(c), including at the 
end of the shift and when personnel stop for breaks and meals. This 
allows EMS personnel to have immediate and ready access to controlled 
substances in the context of preparing for and providing emergency 
services. If an EMS vehicle is not at a registered or designated 
location of the agency, or traveling from, or returning to, a 
registered or designated location of the agency in the course of 
responding to an emergency, then the Act and Sec.  1301.80(a) require 
that it must be ``actively in use'' in order to store controlled 
substances.
    <bullet> In Sec.  1304.27, the requirement that EMS agency records 
reflect certain individuals' ``initials'' has been changed to allow 
agencies to instead record a ``last name or initials.''
    <bullet> The amendments to 21 CFR 1301.13(e) have been updated to 
reflect the increased registration and reregistration fees for 
controlled substance dispensers from $731 to $888 for a three-year 
registration period. On July 24, 2020, DEA published a final rule, 85 
FR 44710, to adjust registration and reregistration fees, in which 
registration and reregistration fees for dispensing or instructing 
business activities in Sec.  1301.13(e) were adjusted to $888 for a 
three-year registration period. See 85 FR at 44718, 44733. Although the 
EMS NPRM intended to set the EMS registration fee at the same level as 
that of other controlled substance dispensers, it did not account for 
the 2020 fee increase, instead retaining the $731 fee.\11\ Thus, this 
rule reflects the current fee of $888 so that, as intended, the fee for 
EMS registrants is the same as that for other dispensers of controlled 
substances.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \11\ Registering Emergency Medical Services Agencies Under the 
Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act of 2017, 85 
FR 62634, 62642-62649 (Oct. 5, 2020).

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 5226]]

A. Definitions

    The Act contains a provision, 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(13), defining the 
terms used throughout its other provisions. In order to conform to the 
Act, DEA is adding these new definitions to its regulations as part of 
a new section, 21 CFR 1300.06. This includes defining the terms 
``actively in use,'' ``authorizing medical professional,'' ``designated 
location,'' ``emergency medical services,'' ``emergency medical 
services agency,'' ``emergency medical services professional,'' 
``emergency medical services vehicle,'' ``hospital-based,'' ``medical 
director,'' ``medical oversight,'' ``on call,'' ``registered emergency 
medical services agency,'' ``registered location,'' ``specific State 
authority,'' ``standing order,'' ``stationhouse,'' and ``verbal 
order.''
    The definition of ``actively in use'' was added to provide clarity 
under 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(6)(C)(ii) as to when an EMS vehicle used by an 
agency may store controlled substances. This definition would include 
instances when an EMS vehicle is responding to an emergency, is 
transporting patients, or is on call. The aim is to delineate when an 
EMS vehicle is considered engaging in an emergency response or waiting 
for the next call. ``On call'' means that the emergency medical 
services vehicle and its personnel are ready and available to respond, 
but may not be responding to an emergency at that precise moment. EMS 
vehicles and personnel are considered ``on call'' when they are 
prepared to respond to emergencies, even if they are not actively 
engaged in an emergency call. This includes periods when the vehicle is 
on standby for the next call, which may include waiting in designated 
standby areas, maintaining readiness for deployment. Examples of on 
call also include participating in public safety/educational events, 
going to lunch, and parking and leaving the vehicle unattended during a 
break.
    Additionally, the Act contains provisions that allows DEA to issue 
regulations specifying, with regard to the delivery of controlled 
substances under 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(5), the types of locations that may 
be designated. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(11)(A)(i). In order to conform with the 
Act, DEA has identified this type of location as a ``stationhouse'' and 
is adding the definition of a ``stationhouse'' to its regulations as 
part of 21 CFR 1300.06. As discussed above, the definition of 
``stationhouse'' in this final rule differs slightly from that in the 
proposed rule. In this final rule, the definition of ``stationhouse'' 
is being amended to provide clarity by removing the requirement that a 
stationhouse must house an EMS vehicle, removing the term ``for 
emergency response,'' and adding the phrase ``at its premises'' to 
accommodate locations where EMS vehicles are not housed or stored 
indoors. These revisions aim to acknowledge the unique operational 
demands of EMS agencies and ensure that this rule supports the 
efficient and effective delivery of emergency medical services. In 
response to the commenters concern that EMS agencies may at times be 
used primarily for various operational EMS purposes, but not actually 
``house'' associated EMS vehicles, DEA removed the requirement that a 
stationhouse must house an EMS vehicle from the stationhouse 
definition. DEA also removed the phrase ``for emergency response'' from 
the stationhouse definition in response to the comments received. In 
addition to housing EMS vehicles, stationhouses may also be used for 
various EMS activities such as the storage of medical supplies, 
controlled substances, and equipment; staff training and education; and 
administrative functions essential to EMS operations.
    Further, the addition of the phrase ``at its premises'' to 
accommodate locations where EMS vehicles are not housed or stored 
indoors, allows flexibility for an EMS agency to house a vehicle 
outside of an enclosed registered or designated location. However, an 
EMS vehicle may be parked outside of a stationhouse, but for security 
purposes, if it stores controlled substances, it must be locked. The 
primary goal for this regulatory change is to provide EMS agencies with 
the necessary flexibility to effectively serve the public. ``At the 
premises'' specifically refers to the stationhouse premises, where EMS 
vehicles are parked outside of a stationhouse. This includes areas 
directly associated with the stationhouse where EMS activities are 
conducted. Examples of permissible locations at the stationhouse 
premises may include, but are not limited to: nearby docks (secure 
docking areas used for EMS boats or watercraft, part of the 
stationhouse premises); airplane hangars (enclosed, secure hangars 
within the stationhouse premises used for EMS aircraft); or garages and 
parking areas (designated parking spaces within the stationhouse 
premises where EMS vehicles are parked and secured). EMS vehicles 
containing controlled substances must be locked, unless responding to 
an emergency, at the scene of an emergency, or EMS personnel are in 
attendance.

B. Registration for Emergency Medical Services Agencies

1. Current Regulations for EMS Registration
    Pursuant to 21 CFR 1301.12(a), controlled substances may only be 
delivered to and distributed or dispensed from a DEA registered 
location. In addition, under the CSA and DEA regulations, a separate 
registration is generally required for each principal place of business 
or professional practice at one general physical location where 
controlled substances are manufactured, distributed, imported, 
exported, or dispensed by a person. 21 U.S.C. 822(e); 21 CFR 
1301.12(a).
    Until the passage of the Act, the CSA and its implementing 
regulations did not directly mention EMS. Historically, DEA has not 
specifically registered EMS agencies to procure or dispense controlled 
substances. Instead, generally, EMS vehicles have obtained controlled 
substances for dispensing pursuant to a physician's instructions by 
operating under the registration of a hospital through one of two 
options.
    Under the first option, an EMS vehicle owned and operated by a 
hospital handles controlled substances under the hospital's 
registration.\12\ The EMS vehicle obtains controlled substances from 
the hospital's pharmacy or emergency room, as an extension of the 
hospital pharmacy. Under the second option, an EMS agency is registered 
under a hospital registration by agreement--that is a private EMS 
agency enters into a formal agreement with a specified hospital to act 
as the hospital's agent. The hospital supplies each EMS vehicle with a 
prepared kit containing controlled substances needed by the EMS agency 
and replenishes the kit as necessary. Many EMS agencies are currently 
using hospital registrations to stock and operate their EMS vehicles at 
those hospitals in this manner. In the event of shortages of controlled 
substances, public health emergencies, or mass casualty events, EMS 
agencies may receive controlled substances from hospitals that they are 
not affiliated with for the purpose of restocking EMS vehicles to 
ensure EMS vehicles are adequately restocked. As a current practice, it 
is important to note that when a DEA registrant obtains controlled 
substances from a hospital that they are unaffiliated with, the

[[Page 5227]]

supplying registrant must follow the five percent rule \13\ and a DEA 
222 form or an invoice is required to transfer between the supplying 
registrant and the receiving registrant.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \12\ EMS agencies' use of this option is now explicitly 
authorized by the Act, 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(3), and DEA is adding this 
option to its regulations as 21 CFR 1301.20(a)(2).
    \13\ In accordance with 21 CFR 1307.11(a)(1)(iv), the five 
percent rule permits a practitioner dispenser, under certain 
circumstances, to distribute controlled substances to another 
practitioner without having to obtain a separate DEA registration as 
a distributor: ``[a] practitioner who is registered to dispense a 
controlled substance may distribute (without being registered to 
distribute) a quantity of such substance to . . . [a]nother 
practitioner for the purpose of general dispensing by the 
practitioner to patients, provided [inter alia] that . . . [t]he 
total number of dosage units of all controlled substances 
distributed by the practitioner . . . during each calendar year . . 
. does not exceed 5 percent of the total number of dosage units of 
all controlled substances distributed and dispensed by the 
practitioner during the same calendar year.''
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

2. Regulations for EMS Registration
    The Act authorized the Attorney General (and thus, by delegation, 
the Administrator) to register EMS agencies, which allowed for a new 
registration category for EMS professionals to administer controlled 
substances in schedule II-V to patients receiving emergency medical 
services. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(1). The Act thereby effectively amends the 
CSA to add a new category of registrant--an EMS agency--and to require 
DEA to grant registrations to those agencies if certain conditions are 
met. Thus, in conformity with the Act, DEA is amending 21 CFR 1301.13 
and adding 21 CFR 1301.20 to provide for the registration of EMS 
agencies.
    As part of this regulatory change, DEA is adding Sec.  1301.20(a) 
to its regulations, which describes the registration requirements for 
EMS agencies registered under Sec.  1301.13. The registration 
requirements of Sec.  1301.20(a) are taken directly from the Act, 21 
U.S.C. 823(k)(1)-(3).
    DEA recommends three options to allow EMS agencies to transition 
their registrations, in accordance with the Act. The three options for 
EMS agencies to transition are: (1) transition immediately on the 
effective date established by DEA; (2) transition at the expiration of 
their current registration; or (3) transition three to six months prior 
to their renewal date. DEA recommends that registrants contact their 
local DEA field office to complete this transition.

C. Designated Location of an Emergency Medical Services Agency

    To lessen the burden for EMS agencies with several stationhouses in 
a single State, the Act allows EMS agencies to choose the option of a 
single registration in each State where the EMS agency operates, 21 
U.S.C. 823(k)(2), and DEA is amending its regulations accordingly 
through provisions of Sec.  1301.20(a)(1). This rule would allow EMS 
registrants to consolidate multiple registrations into a single 
registration for each State in which they currently operate. EMS 
agencies that operate EMS facilities in multiple States must still have 
a separate registration in each State where the agency operates. In 
addition, under the Act and Sec.  1301.20(a)(2) of this regulation, 
hospital-based EMS agencies are allowed to operate under the 
registration of a hospital to administer controlled substances without 
being separately registered pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(3).
    Many EMS agencies currently utilize what is sometimes termed the 
``hub-and-spoke'' model where the agency has a main or central location 
and several stationhouses managed by the main location. The 
stationhouses are strategically placed throughout a geographical area 
to provide timely responses to the emergency medical needs of the 
residents of the area. Under DEA's current registration regulations, if 
only the main location is registered with DEA, the employees of each of 
the separate (unregistered) stationhouses are not allowed to acquire or 
store controlled substances at the unregistered stationhouse.
    The Act amended the CSA to authorize EMS agencies to designate 
specific unregistered locations where controlled substances will be 
delivered and stored, but requires registered EMS agencies to provide 
notice of these locations to the Attorney General at least 30 days 
before delivery. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(5). A registered EMS agency may 
deliver controlled substances from a registered location of the agency 
to an unregistered location of the agency only if the agency (1) 
designates the unregistered location for such delivery; and (2) 
notifies DEA at least 30 days prior to first delivering controlled 
substances to the unregistered location.
    DEA is bringing its regulations into conformity with the Act by 
adding 21 CFR 1301.20(b). Under this regulatory framework, controlled 
substances must be delivered to the registered location of the EMS 
agency or the hospital if the EMS agency operates under the hospital's 
DEA registration. EMS agencies may then distribute these substances to 
designated unregistered locations, provided they designate the 
unregistered location for such delivery and notify DEA at least 30 days 
prior to first delivering controlled substances to the designated 
unregistered location. Direct deliveries from distributors to 
designated unregistered locations are not permitted under DEA 
regulations. This process ensures secure management of the diversion of 
controlled substances while accommodating the operational needs of EMS 
agencies. Consistent with the Attorney General's authority under 21 
U.S.C. 823(k)(11)(A)(ii) to prescribe how EMS agencies provide notice 
of designated locations, this regulation requires notification of the 
name and physical address of the designated location through DEA's 
website, <a href="http://www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov">www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov</a>. After an EMS agency has been 
approved for a DEA registration, the EMS agency may identify designated 
locations through DEA's website, <a href="http://www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov">www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov</a>. An EMS 
agency that has thus identified designated locations may begin 
delivering controlled substances to that designated location 30 days 
after notification to DEA.
    The Act also authorizes the Attorney General to issue regulations 
specifying the types of locations that may be designated by an EMS 
agency. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(11)(A)(i). Pursuant to this authority, DEA is 
including a provision in Sec.  1301.20(b) that allows an EMS agency to 
label stationhouses as the type of location that will be considered a 
``designated location'' of the EMS agency. A registered EMS agency may 
deliver controlled substances from a registered location of the agency 
to an unregistered location of the agency only if the agency designates 
the unregistered location as a stationhouse for such delivery; and 
notifies the Administration at least 30 days prior to the first 
delivery of controlled substances to the unregistered location. The 
delivery of controlled substances by a registered emergency medical 
services agency pursuant to this section shall not be treated as 
distribution. Thus, for example, a location that serves primarily as a 
residence does not meet the definition of a stationhouse and may not be 
selected as a ``designated location'' by an EMS agency that is 
registered with DEA. In contrast, a building that is actively serving 
primarily to house the equipment of an EMS agency, such as a county 
fire and rescue department that is a part of the EMS agency, for 
example, would qualify as a stationhouse under this rule (and thus may 
be selected as a ``designated location'' by an EMS agency that is 
registered with DEA) regardless of whether the location is also used 
for other purposes. The final rule, however, does not include a 
requirement (as did the proposed rule) that the stationhouse

[[Page 5228]]

actually house EMS vehicles in an enclosed structure.
    As discussed above, the provisions of Sec.  1301.20(b) outline the 
process by which a stationhouse is ``designated'' under an existing EMS 
agency registration. This notification must occur at least 30 days 
prior to the first delivery of controlled substances to the 
unregistered designated location of the agency. Unless an objection is 
raised by DEA, an unregistered location automatically becomes a 
designated location of the agency 30 days after notification of the 
designated location is made to DEA.
    Additionally, Sec.  1301.80(a) codifies in DEA regulations the 
Act's list of the locations where a registered EMS agency may store 
controlled substances. See 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(6). A registered EMS agency 
may store controlled substances at a registered location of the agency, 
a designated location of the agency 30 days following notification to 
DEA in accordance with Sec.  1301.20, in an emergency medical services 
vehicle situated at a registered location or designated location of the 
agency, or in an emergency medical services vehicle used by the agency 
that is traveling from, or returning to, a registered location or 
designated location of the agency while responding to an emergency, or 
when the emergency medical services vehicle is actively in use by the 
agency. Id. These provisions directly incorporate the Act and make it 
clear to registrants that under the specified conditions, DEA is 
allowing the transportation of controlled substances between both 
registered and designated locations of the agency. It is important to 
emphasize that EMS vehicles must comply with the applicable state laws 
when traveling to or from a registered or designated EMS agency 
location while responding to an emergency, or when the EMS vehicle is 
actively in use by the agency.

D. Emergency Medical Services Vehicles

    Both the Act and section 1300.06 define an emergency services 
vehicle as an ambulance, fire apparatus, supervisor truck, or other 
vehicle used by an EMS agency for the purpose of providing or 
facilitating emergency medical care and transport or transporting 
controlled substances to and from the registered and designated 
locations. See 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(13)(F). Under the control of the 
practitioner registration or hospital registration, controlled 
substances can be supplied to and stored in an EMS vehicle. Section 
1301.80 allows a registered EMS agency to store controlled substances 
in an EMS vehicle located at a registered location, a designated 
location, or in an EMS vehicle used by the agency that is traveling 
from, or returning to, a registered or designated location of the 
agency in the course of responding to an emergency, or otherwise 
actively in use by the agency. ``Actively in use'' for emergency 
medical vehicles means the vehicle is currently engaged in responding 
to an emergency call, is transporting patients, or is on call. ``On 
call'' means that the emergency medical services vehicle and its 
personnel are ready and available to respond, but may not be responding 
to an emergency at that precise moment.
    Furthermore, in accordance with new section 1301.80(d), registered 
EMS agency personnel may carry controlled substances on their person or 
in a jump bag instead of storing the controlled substances in a safe 
when responding to an emergency. The controlled substances must be 
returned to a storage component as described Sec.  1301.80(c), either 
inside of the EMS vehicle or at the registered or designated location, 
when EMS personnel are not responding to an emergency or the EMS 
vehicle is actively in use.

E. Recordkeeping Requirements

1. Records and Inventories
    The transportation of controlled substances for administration to 
EMS patients presents unique recordkeeping concerns. Concerning non-
practitioners that transport controlled substances (e.g., 
manufacturers, distributors, exporters, importers), DEA can track the 
movement of the controlled substances through recordkeeping and 
reporting requirements within the two-registrant integrity system. 
Generally, the registrant that transports controlled substances 
maintains a record of, and will report delivery of the controlled 
substances, while the registrant that receives the controlled 
substances must account for the received controlled substances. Every 
registrant is required to maintain complete and accurate records of 
each substance manufactured, imported, received, sold, delivered, 
exported, or disposed of. 21 CFR 1304.21(a). This two-registrant 
integrity system provides an effective means of protection against 
diversion in that the transfer of the controlled substances shall be 
verified by two separate registrants, thus helping to ensure that 
controlled substances are not diverted for illicit use.
    EMS agencies are typically the last registrants to possess 
controlled substances prior to administering to a patient at the scene 
of an emergency. As such, the two-registrant integrity system does not 
exist beyond the transfer to an EMS agency, in the traditional sense of 
registrant recordkeeping. Therefore, DEA is implementing recordkeeping 
regulations for EMS agencies to incorporate the Act's CSA amendments 
regarding recordkeeping, and to ensure an accurate accounting of the 
controlled substances outside the two-registrant integrity system.
    DEA is implementing Sec.  1304.03(i) to require EMS agencies to 
maintain records of the EMS personnel whose State license or 
certification gives them the ability to administer controlled 
substances, in compliance with their State laws. Because States have 
differing requirements for the ability to handle controlled substances, 
maintaining records of employees authorized to handle controlled 
substances will help DEA identify the source of any diversion occurring 
at EMS agencies.
    Section 1304.03(i) is not based directly on the text of the Act, 
but instead on DEA's general authority under the CSA to prevent 
diversion of controlled substances by requiring registrants to maintain 
records. See 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(12)(B) (nothing in the Act is to be 
construed to limit the authority of the Attorney General to take 
measures to prevent diversion).
a. Restocking
    Following an emergency response where controlled substances were 
administered, EMS personnel may not have enough time to return to their 
stationhouse to restock their EMS vehicle with controlled substances. 
Depending on the circumstances, the stationhouse may be a considerable 
distance from the hospital where the EMS personnel brought a patient, 
or the volume of emergencies may be so great that the ambulance does 
not have time to return to the stationhouse. Rural EMS systems in the 
United States may face transport distances of 20 to 100 miles to the 
nearest hospital.\14\ Thus, the Act allows non-hospital-based EMS 
agencies to receive controlled substances from a hospital for the 
purpose of restocking an EMS vehicle following an emergency response. 
This also allows hospital-based EMS agencies operating away from the 
hospital at which they are registered to be restocked by other 
hospitals. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(8). Section 1307.14(a) codifies this 
allowance--and the associated statutory conditions--in DEA regulations.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \14\ Williamson, H.A., Jr. (2001). Emergency Care. In J.P. 
Geyman, T.E. Norris & L.G. Hart (Eds.), Textbook of Rural Medicine 
(pp. 93-102). New York: The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

[[Page 5229]]

b. Maintenance of Records
    Under Sec.  1304.04(a), controlled substance records for all DEA 
registrants are required to be maintained for at least two years from 
the date of such inventory or records. Under this rule, DEA requires 
maintenance of records of deliveries of controlled substances between 
all locations of the agency. Following the Act, 21 U.S.C. 
823(k)(9)(B)(ii), DEA also establishes in Sec.  1304.04(a)(5) the 
requirement that records be maintained, whether electronically or 
otherwise, at each registered and designated location of the agency 
where the controlled substances involved are received, administered, or 
otherwise disposed of.
    Because EMS agencies have a unique registration that differs from 
other types of registrants, DEA is also adding a new section to its 
regulations that describes the recordkeeping requirements applicable to 
EMS agencies. Consistent with the Act's amendments to the CSA, 21 
U.S.C. 823(k)(9), Sec.  1304.27(a) requires an EMS agency to maintain 
records for each controlled substance administered or disposed of in 
the course of providing emergency medical services. Under the 
provisions of Sec.  1304.27(a), any EMS personnel who disposes of or 
administers controlled substances to a patient in the course of 
providing emergency medical care must record the name of the controlled 
substance(s) and detailed information about the circumstances 
surrounding the administration of the controlled substance(s) (e.g., 
name of the substance, date dispensed, identification of the patient). 
EMS personnel do not have independent authority to administer 
controlled substances; therefore, more stringent recordkeeping 
requirements are necessary when allowing administration of controlled 
substances without direct oversight. In the proposed rule, Sec.  
1304.27(a) would have required EMS agencies to record the ``initials'' 
of the person who administered the substance, of the medical director 
or authorizing medical professional issues the relevant standing or 
verbal order, of the person disposing of the substances (if 
applicable), and of the witness to disposal. As discussed above, the 
requirement of ``initials'' led to some questions from commenters, and 
DEA is altering this provision in the final rule to instead indicate 
that the individual's ``last name or initials'' are required. The 
medical director or other authorizing medical professional is not 
required to initial the records personally.
    DEA provides in Sec.  1304.27(b)(3) that an EMS agency must 
maintain records of controlled substances delivered between registered 
and designated locations of the agency (except agencies restocking at 
the hospital under which the EMS agency is operating, because the 
hospital is required to keep records of such restocking). These 
records, for example, should include the name of the controlled 
substance(s), finished form, number of units in the commercial 
container, date delivered, and the address of the EMS agency location 
where the controlled substances were delivered. In the event of theft 
or loss of controlled substances, registrants must report such 
occurrence in accordance with the existing theft and loss reporting 
requirements of 21 CFR part 1304.
    Finally, under 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(8)(c) of the Act, designated 
locations of an EMS agency must notify the registered location of their 
EMS agency within 72 hours of receiving controlled substances from a 
hospital for the purpose of restocking an EMS vehicle following an 
emergency response. The provisions in Sec.  1304.27(c) codify this 
requirement in DEA regulations. However, EMS agencies that operate 
under a hospital-based registration and receive restock of controlled 
substances from the hospital under which the agency is operating are 
exempt from these requirements. In this specific instance, under Sec.  
1307.14(a)(2), hospitals would already have a record of the controlled 
substances that the hospital delivered to the EMS agency operating 
under that hospital's registration. As such, it would be duplicative to 
require that EMS agency to obtain a receipt of those controlled 
substances because the EMS agency would be reporting receipt of the 
controlled substances back to the hospital that issued the controlled 
substances in the first place.

F. Changes for Security Requirements

1. Security Controls
    Every DEA registrant must follow certain security requirements to 
prevent the theft or loss of controlled substances, and the Act 
authorizes the Attorney General to issue regulations specifying the 
manner in which controlled substances must be stored by EMS agencies. 
21 U.S.C. 823(k)(11)(B). Pursuant to this authorization, DEA will 
implement physical security requirements for EMS agencies similar to 
those already established for practitioners in Sec.  1301.75.
a. Storage of Controlled Substances
    Pursuant to its authorization under the Act to issue regulations 
regarding EMS agencies' storage of controlled substances, DEA is adding 
Sec.  1301.80 to address additional security concerns for EMS agencies. 
First, although designated locations of EMS agencies are not 
individually registered, they are allowed to store controlled 
substances in secured locations. The provisions of Sec.  1301.80(a)(1) 
through (4) specify the secured locations within an EMS agency where 
controlled substances may be stored, and implement the Act's allowance 
in 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(6) of storage at EMS registered locations, at 
designated locations, inside of EMS vehicles stationed at registered or 
designated locations, and inside of EMS vehicles that are actively in 
use by the agency.
    Pursuant to Sec.  1301.80(a)(1) through (4), an EMS agency may 
store controlled substances at a registered location of the agency; a 
designated location of the agency 30 days following notification to DEA 
in accordance with Sec.  1301.20; in an emergency medical services 
vehicle situated at a registered location or designated location of the 
agency; or in an emergency medical services vehicle used by the agency 
that is traveling from, or returning to, a registered location or 
designated location of the agency while responding to an emergency, or 
when the emergency medical services vehicle is actively in use.
    DEA's final rule provides a framework to effectively minimize the 
risk of diversion while maintaining their readiness to respond to 
emergencies and to ensure the security of controlled substances in EMS 
vehicles, when parked outside stationhouses and designated locations. 
As outlined in Sec.  1301.80, EMS vehicles must be equipped with secure 
locking mechanisms for cabinets if they are to store controlled 
substances. These locks are designed to prevent unauthorized access, 
even when vehicles are parked outside stationhouses. Further, Sec.  
1301.80(c)(1) mandates that controlled substances must be stored in a 
securely locked, substantially constructed cabinet if not being carried 
in a jump bag or on the person of EMS personnel when responding to an 
emergency, whether within the vehicle or at a registered or designated 
location. Alternatively, under Sec.  1301.80(c)(2), controlled 
substances may also be stored in an automated dispensing machine at a 
registered or designated location. This ensures secure storage at all 
times, in order to minimize the risk of diversion.
b. Vehicle Locking Requirements
    The provision outlined in Sec.  1301.80(b) specifies when an EMS 
vehicle storing controlled substances must be locked.

[[Page 5230]]

An emergency medical services vehicle storing controlled substances 
must be locked when parked outside of an enclosed registered or 
designated location, or when it is actively in use, but unattended 
(such as when EMS personnel stop for lunch, when EMS personnel are on 
call and leaves the vehicle unattended, or when the vehicle is actively 
in use). Because of the Act's requirements, in order to store 
controlled substances, an EMS vehicle that is not parked at a 
registered or designated location, or traveling from or returning to 
such a location in the course of responding to an emergency, must be 
``actively in use'' as defined in Sec.  1300.06((b)(1). An emergency 
medical services vehicle storing controlled substances does not need to 
be locked only if: (1) It is parked within an enclosed registered or 
designated location; (2) It is at the scene of an emergency; or (3) 
Emergency services personnel are in attendance. This includes 
situations when personnel are physically present and able to monitor 
the vehicle, such as when the vehicle is traveling to or from the scene 
of an emergency, or it is at public displays or educational events. 
Despite the vehicle being unlocked, the risk of diversion is mitigated 
due to the presence of trained personnel.
    Under Sec.  1301.80(b), an EMS vehicle storing controlled 
substances is not required to be locked when EMS personnel are in 
attendance, although the controlled substances must themselves still be 
stored in a securely locked, substantially constructed cabinet or safe 
that cannot be readily removed. ``In attendance'' refers to the 
presence of authorized EMS personnel who are responsible for the 
security and control of the EMS vehicle and its contents, particularly 
controlled substances. ``In attendance'' could also encompass having 
the EMS personnel physically present within the immediate vicinity of 
the EMS vehicle, which allows for effective supervision and immediate 
response to any security threats or emergencies. Examples of ``in 
attendance'' include, but are not limited to, being at an emergency 
scene, on standby at events, or when transporting patients. Being ``in 
attendance'' at an EMS vehicle plays a critical role in deterring 
diversion of controlled substances by ensuring continuous supervision 
and immediate response capabilities, thereby ensuring the secure 
handling of controlled substances. When EMS personnel are ``in 
attendance,'' they can continuously monitor the vehicle, which 
discourages unauthorized access.
    By comparison, an EMS vehicle storing controlled substances must be 
locked whenever the EMS vehicle is unattended, meaning there are no EMS 
personnel in attendance, with the controlled substances stored in a 
securely locked, substantially constructed cabinet or safe that cannot 
be readily removed. This includes when the EMS vehicle is parked at a 
stationhouse, hospital, or any other location. Additionally, an EMS 
vehicle storing controlled substances must be locked when the vehicle 
is actively in use but is not at an emergency scene and is parked in a 
public or unsecured area, such as when EMS personnel are on call and 
stop for lunch, or leave the vehicle unattended, such as during a 
break. Requiring EMS vehicles storing controlled substances to be 
locked, with the controlled substances stored in a separately locked 
cabinet or safe that is substantially constructed and cannot be readily 
removed, mitigates the risk of diversion by ensuring that controlled 
substances are inaccessible to unauthorized individuals.
c. Storage Components
    In addition, DEA is adding Sec.  1301.80(c) to allow several 
options by which EMS agencies may store controlled substances. This 
change is not taken directly from the Act's statutory amendments to the 
CSA, but instead implements the Act's authorization to the Attorney 
General to ``specify . . . the manner in which [controlled] substances 
must be stored at registered and designated locations, including in EMS 
vehicles.'' 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(11)(B).
    The first option in Sec.  1301.80(c)(1) will allow for an EMS 
agency to store controlled substances in a securely locked, 
substantially constructed cabinet or safe that cannot be readily 
removed. This storage component must be located at a secured location, 
as stated in Sec.  1301.80(a). Such cabinets or safes can be used in 
either vehicles or buildings meeting the requirements of a secure 
location. Premises that are set aside for housing outdoor EMS vehicles 
are required to securely lock the EMS vehicle and the controlled 
substances must be stored in a securely locked cabinet or safe. If an 
EMS vehicle is used to store controlled substances, it must have a 
secure cabinet or safe. The controlled substances cannot be stored in a 
vehicle that is locked, without putting them in a safe.
    The second option in Sec.  1301.80(c)(2) will allow an EMS agency 
to store controlled substances in an automated dispensing system (ADS) 
machine, under specific conditions. An ADS is ``a mechanical system 
that performs operations or activities, other than compounding or 
administration, relative to the storage, packaging, counting, labeling, 
and dispensing of medications, and which collects, controls, and 
maintains all transactions in information.'' 21 CFR 1300.01. Currently, 
DEA regulations permit retail pharmacies to install and operate ADS 
machines at long-term care facilities as a way of preventing the 
accumulation of surplus controlled substances at those facilities. See 
id. Sec.  1301.27. At an EMS agency registered or designated location, 
an ADS machine effectively will serve as a controlled substance storage 
locker with advanced capabilities and will provide a mechanism for 
storing stocks of controlled substances before they are secured in 
emergency vehicles as well as for monitoring the dissemination of those 
substances.
    The conditions in Sec.  1301.80(c)(2) under which an EMS agency 
could use an ADS machine to store controlled substances include the 
following: (1) the ADS machine must be located at an EMS agency 
registered location or designated location; (2) the EMS agency cannot 
permit any entity other than the registered EMS agency to install and 
operate the ADS machine; (3) the ADS machine cannot be used to directly 
dispense controlled substances to an ultimate user; and (4) EMS agency 
must operate the ADS machine in compliance with requirements of State 
law. It is necessary that access to the ADS machine be limited to 
employees of the EMS agency in order to account for and monitor 
dissemination of controlled substances. Unlike a safe or cabinet, an 
ADS machine cannot be used to provide secure storage on an EMS vehicle.
    In sum, the provisions of Sec.  1301.80(c)(1)-(2) will provide 
alternative options for short-term or long-term storage of controlled 
substances that are actively being transported or stored in a fixed 
location.
d. Carrying of Controlled Substances During Emergencies
    The provisions set forth in Sec.  1301.80(d) will allow EMS 
personnel to carry controlled substances on their person or in a jump 
bag when responding to an emergency, instead of storing the controlled 
substances in a safe during an emergency response. The controlled 
substances must be returned to a storage component as described in 
Sec.  1301.80(c)(1), either inside of the EMS vehicle or at the 
registered or designated location, when EMS personnel are not currently 
engaged in responding to an emergency.

[[Page 5231]]

    EMS personnel will have immediate and ready access to controlled 
substances in the context of preparing for and providing emergency 
services during active duty. This would eliminate the need to return to 
the EMS vehicle to get controlled substances from a locked safe during 
an emergency response. Thus, the provisions of Sec.  1301.80(d) provide 
options for carrying controlled substances in a jump bag or on EMS 
personnel's person in preparation for or during an emergency response.
e. Delivery
    The Act allows for controlled substances to be delivered between a 
registered location and a designated location of an EMS agency. 21 
U.S.C. 823(k)(5). Also, pursuant to its authorization to issue 
regulations regarding the delivery of controlled substances under 21 
U.S.C. 823(k)(11), DEA maintains that medical directors determine who 
accepts deliveries of controlled substances because medical directors 
provide oversight for EMS agencies. This rule will require that the 
delivery of controlled substances at a registered or designated 
location be accepted by a medical director of the agency or a person 
designated in writing by the medical director. For record keeping 
purposes of the delivery of controlled substances, Sec.  1304.27(b)(3) 
will require the medical director of the agency or designated person 
accepting the controlled substances to provide their signature, title, 
date received, quantity, and any additional information required. These 
regulations specify the requirements that will be set forth regarding 
the delivery of controlled substances for emergency medical services.
    As codified at 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(11)(C), the Act also authorizes DEA 
to issue regulations allowing hospitals and EMS agencies to deliver 
controlled substances to one another during shortages, public health 
emergencies, or mass casualty events--rather than relying on 
distributors or hospital restocking. This rule does so in 21 CFR 
1307.15 and makes written approval from the SAC for the area or DEA 
Headquarters a condition of this allowance.
2. Administration Requirements
    DEA is adding Sec.  1306.07(g), which implements 21 U.S.C. 
823(k)(4) in the DEA regulations, allowing EMS professionals of 
registered EMS agencies to administer controlled substances outside the 
physical presence of a medical director or authorizing medical 
professional in the course of providing emergency medical services.\15\ 
Medical directors and EMS professionals authorized to administer 
controlled substances under their State license may administer 
controlled substances in the course of providing emergency medical 
services. However, under 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(4) and Sec.  1306.07(g), an 
EMS professional who is outside the physical presence of a medical 
director or authorizing medical professional must not only have 
authority from their EMS agency to administer controlled substances, 
but such administration must also be pursuant to a proper standing or 
verbal order issued and adopted by one or more medical directors of the 
agency, as discussed below.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \15\ Currently, the regulations in 21 CFR part 1306 relate 
primarily to prescriptions, and thus 21 CFR 1306.01 states part 
1306's scope as generally consisting of ``[r]ules governing the 
issuance, filling and filing of prescriptions pursuant to . . . 21 
U.S.C. 829.'' Because DEA is adding provisions related to the 
administration of controlled substances by EMS agencies to part 
1306, DEA is also amending Sec.  1306.01 to broaden part 1306's 
stated scope to ``the process and procedures for dispensing, by way 
of prescribing and administering controlled substances to ultimate 
users.''
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

a. Standing Orders
    Many agencies have given their EMS personnel the autonomy to 
administer controlled substances in the event of an emergency by 
establishing what is commonly known as a standing order. The Act 
defines a standing order as a written medical protocol in which a 
medical director determines in advance the medical criteria that must 
be met before administering controlled substances to individuals in 
need of emergency medical services. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(13)(M). The 
provisions of Sec.  1300.06 incorporate this definition into DEA 
regulations.
    The Act and Sec.  1306.07(g) allow standing orders to be used by 
EMS professionals. Under both the Act and the proposed regulation, such 
EMS professionals must be authorized by their individual State to 
administer controlled substances. See 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(4). Standing 
orders that are developed by a State authority may be issued and 
adopted by the medical director of an EMS agency. Under the Act and 
Sec.  1306.07(g), only the medical director of an EMS agency is given 
the authority to issue and adopt a standing order. See 21 U.S.C. 
823(k)(4). Also, under both the Act and Sec.  1306.07(g), the EMS 
agency is required to maintain a record of the standing orders issued 
and adopted by a medical director at the registered location of the 
agency. 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(10)(D).
b. Verbal Orders
    In the absence of standing orders, EMS personnel may receive a 
verbal order. Under the Act and Sec.  1300.06, a verbal order is an 
oral directive through any method of communication including by radio 
or telephone, directly to an EMS professional, to contemporaneously 
administer a controlled substance to individuals in need of emergency 
medical services outside the physical presence of the medical director 
or authorizing medical professional. See 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(13)(N). The 
Act and Sec.  1300.06 define ``authorizing medical professional'' as an 
emergency or other physician, or other medical professional (including 
an advanced practice registered nurse or physician assistant) who is 
registered under 21 U.S.C. 823, who is acting within the scope of the 
registration, and whose scope of practice under a State license or 
certification includes the ability to provide verbal orders. See 21 
U.S.C. 823(k)(13)(A).
    Under the Act and Sec.  1306.07(g), an EMS professional may 
administer directly a controlled substance in schedules II-V outside of 
the presence of a practitioner in the course of providing emergency 
medical services if the administration is authorized by State law and 
is pursuant to a verbal order that is issued in accordance with the 
policy of the agency. Such authorization must be provided by a medical 
director or authorizing medical professional in response to a request 
by the EMS professional with respect to a specific patient, either in 
the case of a mass casualty incident, or to ensure the proper care and 
treatment of a specific patient.

IV. Regulatory Analyses

    As explained above, DEA is issuing this final rule to amend its 
regulations in order to make them consistent with the changes made to 
the CSA by the ``Protecting Patient Access to Emergency Medications Act 
of 2017,'' and to otherwise implement the Act's requirements. DEA 
conducted an analysis of the statutory and regulatory changes of this 
rule, the results of which are discussed below.

Executive Orders 12866, 13563, and 14192 (Regulatory Review)

    DEA has determined that this rulemaking is a ``significant 
regulatory action'' under section 3(f) of Executive Order (E.O.) 12866, 
Regulatory Planning and Review, but is not a section 3(f)(1) 
significant action. Accordingly, this rule has been submitted to the 
Office of

[[Page 5232]]

Management and Budget (OMB) for review. This rule has been drafted and 
reviewed in accordance with E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and 
Review,'' section 1(b), Principles of Regulation; E.O. 13563, 
``Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review,'' section 1(b), General 
Principles of Regulation; and E.O. 14192, ``Unleashing Prosperity 
Through Deregulation.''
    This rule is a deregulatory action for the purposes of E.O. 14192. 
This rule is an enabling rule because it allows EMS agencies to 
consolidate many registrations in the same State under a single 
registration, and EMS personnel to administer controlled substances in 
schedules II-V pursuant to a standing or verbal order, which was 
previously not authorized.
    On July 24, 2020, DEA published a final rule to adjust registration 
and reregistration fees, effective October 1, 2020.\16\ The final rule 
adjusted registration and reregistration fees for dispensing or 
instructing business activities to $888 for a three-year registration 
period. The fees had previously been set at $731 for such activities, 
which was the fee rate proposed in the EMS NPRM for EMS registrants. 
Because DEA intended to set EMS registration fees at the same level as 
fees for other registrants that dispense controlled substances, this 
final rule sets the fees for EMS registrants at $888 instead of $731. 
Accordingly, the analysis below has been updated from that in the NPRM 
to reflect the increase in EMS registration and reregistration fees 
from $731 to $888 for a three-year registration period, in accordance 
with 21 CFR 1301.13(e).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \16\ Registration and Reregistration Fees for Controlled 
Substance and List I Chemical Registrants, 85 FR 44710 (July 24, 
2020).
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    DEA expects the annual economic impact of this final rule to range 
from a decrease of $555,888 to an increase of $1,010,544 in 
registration fees paid to DEA depending on the number of registrations 
that can be consolidated and the number of new separate registrations 
that will be needed as a result of this rule. Detailed analysis is 
provided below. Fees paid to DEA pertaining to registrations are 
considered transfer payments and not costs.\17\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \17\ OMB Circular A-4.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Annual changes in labor burden costs as a result of this rule are 
expected to range from a decrease of $19,594 to an increase of $64,636.

Analysis of the Rule's Economic Impact

    DEA analyzed the impact of the following provisions of the rule: 
allowing EMS agencies to register under the CSA with a single 
registration for each State in which an agency operates, along with the 
security and recordkeeping requirements for such a registrant; allowing 
EMS personnel to administer controlled substances in schedules II-V 
outside the presence of a medical director or authorizing medical 
professional when authorized in the State and pursuant to a standing or 
verbal order; and allowing EMS agencies and hospitals to transfer 
controlled substances between each other in order to restock EMS 
vehicles or to deliver controlled substances in the event of shortages, 
public health emergencies, or mass casualty events. Additionally, this 
rule is incorporating into regulation several new terms defined in the 
Act.
    Benefits of the rule are expected to be generated by reducing 
regulatory uncertainty among EMS agencies and personnel regarding the 
administration, transfer, and disposal of controlled substances, and 
these benefits will be discussed qualitatively. By allowing EMS 
registrants to consolidate multiple registrations into a single 
registration for each State in which they currently operate, there will 
be a resulting reduction in transfer payments for current registrants. 
This rule may also result in an increase in transfer payments for EMS 
agencies that are currently not separately registered. The expected net 
change in transfer payments is quantified below. There are also labor 
burden costs associated with obtaining a DEA registration for any EMS 
agencies that must become separately registered after this rule is 
promulgated. These costs or cost savings are discussed and quantified 
below. DEA expects the recordkeeping and security requirements of this 
final rule to have no impact, as they are codifications of existing 
practice among EMS agencies. Finally, the newly defined terms being 
incorporated into regulation by this rule will have no impact on 
regulated entities.

Registrations for Emergency Medical Services Agencies

    While this rule is allowing for a new registration category for EMS 
agencies that handle controlled substances, many EMS agencies have 
already obtained separate DEA registrations as ``Mid-level 
Practitioner--Ambulance Service'' (MLP-AS).\18\ As of November 2019, 
there were 3,521 MLP-AS registrants, 1,413 of which are private sector 
entities that pay a registration fee of $888 every three years. The 
remaining 2,108 are governmental entities that are fee-exempt. DEA 
reviewed its registration database and determined that 395 of the 1,413 
fee-paying registrations are held by EMS agencies with other existing 
registrations in the same State. Because the rule allows EMS agencies 
to obtain a single registration for each State in which they operate, 
these 395 registrations can be consolidated under other existing 
registrations, reducing the total amount of registration fees collected 
by DEA. The resulting annual reduction in transfer payments from 
registrants to DEA amounts to $116,920.\19\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \18\ These existing registrations will be transitioned to the 
new ``Emergency Medical Services Agency'' registration category 
created by this rule.
    \19\ 395 x $888 = $350,760. Dividing this figure by three to 
account for the three-year registration cycle and rounding to the 
nearest whole dollar gives $116,920.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Similarly, of the 2,108 fee-exempt registrations, 411 can be 
consolidated into an agency's existing registration in the same State, 
reducing the labor-related paperwork burden for these agencies, as they 
no longer need to complete multiple registration renewal applications 
for the same State every three years. Combining the 411 fee-exempt 
registrations with the 395 fee-paying registrations results in a total 
of 806 registration renewal applications that are eliminated. The 
resulting annual cost savings generated from this reduction in labor 
burden is $3,026.\20\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \20\ See approved burden estimates for DEA form 224A within the 
1117-0014 Supporting Statement <a href="https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201903-1117-005">https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201903-1117-005</a>. This labor burden estimate 
is derived by multiplying the loaded hourly wage for physicians 
($140.79) by the hour burden per electronic DEA form 224A (0.08), by 
the estimated number of forms (806). The product ($9,078.14) is then 
divided by three in order to account for the three-year registration 
renewal period and rounded to the nearest whole dollar. The loaded 
hourly wage of $140.79 is based on the median hourly wages for 
Occupation Code 29-1069 Physicians and Surgeons, All Other ($96.58). 
May 2018 National Occupational Employment and Wage Estimates, United 
States, BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS, <a href="https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_nat.htm#29-1069">https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_nat.htm#29-1069</a> (last visited November, 2019). Average benefits 
for employees are 31.4 percent of total compensation. Employer Costs 
for Employee Compensation--June, 2019, BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS, 
<a href="https://www.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/ecec.pdf">https://www.bls.gov/news.release/pdf/ecec.pdf</a> (last visited 
November, 2019). The 31.4 percent of total compensation equates to a 
45.77 percent (31.4/68.6) load on wages and salaries. $96.58 x (1 + 
0.4577) = $140.79.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    DEA assumes that all other EMS agencies not registered as MLP-AS 
currently operate under the registration of another DEA registrant in 
one of two ways: a DEA registered practitioner, typically a licensed 
physician, serves as the medical director of the EMS agency; or for EMS 
agencies operated by hospitals, the agency will utilize that hospital's 
registration. In the latter case,

[[Page 5233]]

hospital-based EMS agencies can continue to operate under the 
registration of their hospital after promulgation of this rule. In the 
former case, practitioners who serve as the medical director of an EMS 
agency may utilize a single registration for their personal place of 
business and EMS agency locations,\21\ or they may hold practitioner 
registrations separate from their personal place of business 
registration for each EMS agency location that they oversee. Because 
this rule allows a medical director holding multiple registrations to 
transfer those existing registrations directly to one EMS agency, EMS 
agencies operating under this arrangement will not need a new 
registration. However, for EMS agencies currently operating under their 
medical director's registered personal place of business, a new EMS 
agency registration at the location of the EMS agency for each State in 
which they operate will be required. Additionally, affected non-
governmental EMS agencies must pay the $888 registration fee.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \21\ Under this scenario, the EMS agency must pick up controlled 
substances from the practitioner's personal place of business.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Accurately measuring how many EMS agencies fall into the two 
aforementioned categories is not possible using DEA registration data 
because DEA has not historically collected data on how many 
practitioners hold multiple registrations for the purposes of serving 
as the medical director of an EMS agency. Therefore, DEA chose to 
estimate how many new registrations will be required by considering the 
entire range of possible scenarios and calculated the outcome if either 
0 percent, 50 percent, or 100 percent of EMS agencies will receive a 
transferred practitioner registration from their medical director. 
While DEA cannot accurately assess the likelihood of each of these 
scenarios given the lack of available data, DEA considers the 50 
percent scenario to be a reasonable estimate because it is the mid-
point of the upper and lower bounds.
    In order to calculate the range of impacted entities, DEA must 
first estimate the total population of EMS agencies active in the 
United States. Because DEA registration data are insufficient for these 
purposes, DEA used the latest data available from the National Highway 
Traffic Safety Administration's (NHTSA) Office of EMS. According to an 
NHTSA research note published in 2014,\22\ there are an estimated 
21,283 governmental and non-governmental EMS agency locations 
throughout the United States. The 21,283 figure is NHTSA's estimation 
of the total population using data gathered from 49 of 50 States.\23\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \22\ <a href="https://www.ems.gov/pdf/812041-Natl_EMS_Assessment_2011.pdf">https://www.ems.gov/pdf/812041-Natl_EMS_Assessment_2011.pdf</a>. The comprehensive national assessment 
that this research note is based on, the first of its kind, has not 
been updated since 2011. Prior to this national assessment, data on 
the number and type of EMS agencies operating throughout the United 
States was fragmented and considered to be inaccurate. Therefore, 
DEA considers this is the most accurate data regarding EMS agency 
demographics available.
    \23\ CA data were not available.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    DEA then analyzed its registration database to match current MLP-AS 
registrants with the corresponding EMS organizational types defined in 
the NHTSA research note.\24\ Because the survey data used by NHTSA to 
develop these organizational types did not include California (CA), 
Illinois (IL), Washington (WA), or Virginia (VA), the total number of 
EMS agency locations categorized by type amounts to 15,516 instead of 
the total 21,283 estimated EMS agency locations throughout the United 
States. DEA assumes that the distribution of EMS agencies by 
organizational type in CA, IL, WA, and VA broadly matches the national 
distribution. Therefore, DEA adjusted for this missing data by 
calculating the percent of the total for each organizational type for 
the 46 reporting States and applied those percentages to the estimated 
21,283 EMS agencies in the entire United States.\25\ DEA was then able 
to categorize current MLP-AS registrants as Fire-Department-Based, 
Governmental Non-Fire-Based, Private Non-Hospital, or Tribal, according 
to their registration name.\26\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \24\ The NHTSA research note breaks down the demographics of EMS 
agencies into the following organizational types: ``Fire-Department-
Based,'' ``Governmental Non-Fire-Based,'' ``Hospital-Based,'' 
``Private Non-Hospital,'' ``Tribal,'' ``Other EMS Agency,'' and 
``Emergency Medical Dispatch.'' The ``Other EMS Agency'' 
organizational type is not defined in the research note or national 
assessment survey on which the research note is based; however, for 
the purposes of this analysis, DEA considers this category to be 
made up of private sector entities. The ``Emergency Medical 
Dispatch'' category is excluded from this analysis because dispatch 
agencies will not be required to obtain a DEA registration.
    \25\ For example, of the 15,516 EMS agency locations reported to 
NHTSA by organizational type, 6,388 were Fire-Department-Based. 
6,388 is 41.17 percent of 15,516. 41.17 percent of 21,283 is 8,762. 
This calculation is repeated for each organizational type and the 
results are reported in the ``Est. Pop'' column of Table 1.
    \26\ In order to classify EMS agencies currently registered as 
MLP-AS as either ``Fire-Department-Based'' or ``Governmental Non-
Fire-Based,'' DEA filtered all fee-exempt MLP-AS registrants into 
two groups based on whether their registration name contained the 
word ``fire.''
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    It is reasonable to assume that a portion of these estimated EMS 
agencies not separately registered operate multiple locations in the 
same State. The NHTSA research note states that EMS agencies are 
``licensed in each State to provide service to a specific location or 
service area. EMS service areas can be very large, as in a geopolitical 
boundary, such as a county, city or municipality, or as small as the 
local service area of a single EMS agency station.'' This definition 
suggests that the 21,283 total EMS agencies estimated by NHTSA includes 
EMS agencies operating multiple stations in the same State. Because 
only one registration is required for multiple ``agencies,'' as defined 
by NHTSA, DEA must adjust its calculation of the number of EMS agencies 
not separately registered to account for this.
    In order to estimate how many EMS agencies not separately 
registered operate at more than one location in a State, DEA used the 
existing MLP-AS registrant category as a model. It is reasonable to 
assume that the characteristics of the population of EMS agencies 
registered as MLP-AS are broadly representative of the characteristics 
of the population of EMS agencies that are not separately registered. 
As discussed previously, the fee-paying MLP-AS registrant category 
contains 1,413 registrations that can be consolidated into 1,018 
registrations. Similarly, the fee-exempt category contains 2,108 
registrations that can be consolidated into 1,697 registrations. DEA 
used these figures to calculate a State-level ``agency-to-location'' 
ratio of 0.72 for fee-paying registrants,\27\ and 0.81 for fee-exempt 
registrants.\28\ These ratios are then applied to the estimated 6,705 
private-sector and 13,342 governmental EMS agency locations not 
separately registered with DEA, respectively, to determine the expected 
total number of EMS agencies that require separate registrations as a 
result of this rule.\29\ This calculation yields an estimated total of 
15,634 EMS agencies that will be separately registered, 4,827 of which 
are fee-paying, and 10,807 of which are fee-exempt. Removing the 1,018 
fee-paying and 1,697 fee-exempt MLP-AS registrants from these 
respective totals yields an estimated 3,809 fee-paying and 9,110 fee-
exempt EMS agencies that must obtain a separate registration after this 
rule is promulgated. These calculations are summarized in Table 1 
below.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \27\ 1,018/1,413 = 0.72.
    \28\ 1,697/2,108 = 0.81.
    \29\ An ``agency-to-location'' ratio is not applied to the 
estimated 1,236 hospital-based EMS agencies, because this rule does 
not impact their registration status.

[[Page 5234]]



                                                                                             Table 1
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                % of                                                                Non-MLP-AS
               EMS agency org type                 Reported   reported    Est.    Est. number   Current    MLP-AS reg   Post-rule      reg       Total reg                Fee status
                                                     pop        pop       pop      of reg *      MLP-AS    eliminated    MLP-AS     eliminated   eliminated
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Fire-Dep't-Based................................      6,388      41.17    8,762         7,097      1,145          251         894        1,414        1,665  Exempt.
Gov't Non-Fire..................................      3,255      20.98    4,465         3,617        960          160         800          688          848  Exempt.
Hospital-Based..................................        901       5.81    1,236           N/A        N/A          N/A         N/A          N/A          N/A  N/A.
Private Non-Hospital............................      3,910      25.20    5,363         3,861      1,413          395       1,018        1,107        1,502  Paying.
Tribal..........................................         84       0.54      115            93          3            0           3           22           22  Exempt.
Other EMS **....................................        978       6.30    1,342           966          0          N/A           0          376          376  Paying.
                                                 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total.......................................     15,516        100   21,283        15,634      3,521          806       2,715        3,607       4,413.  ...................................
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* Figures in this column are calculated by multiplying the corresponding row of the Est. Pop column by either the fee-paying ``Agency-to-Location'' ratio of 0.72 or the fee-exempt ``Agency-to-
  Location'' ratio of 0.81, depending on each registrant's fee status reported in the Fee Status column.
** Category not defined in the 2011 National Assessment; assumed to be private-sector entities.

    As discussed previously, DEA's methodology for estimating the 
number of new EMS agency registrations must account for situations in 
which a practitioner is currently using a single DEA registration to 
serve as the medical director of multiple EMS agency locations. Because 
DEA does not have the ability to identify how many EMS agencies are 
currently operating in this manner, DEA chose to calculate a range of 
between 0 percent and 100 percent of EMS agencies that may have a DEA 
registration transferred from a practitioner. If 100 percent of the 
estimated 3,809 fee-paying EMS agencies not separately registered are 
currently operating under a practitioner registration that will be 
transferred from their medical director, there will be no increase in 
fees (transfer payments) from these future registrants to DEA. If 0 
percent of these 3,809 fee-paying EMS agencies operate under a 
practitioner registration that can be transferred from their medical 
director, there will be an increase in fees (transfer payments) of 
$1,127,464 to DEA on an annual basis.\30\ Likewise, calculations for 
the 50 percent scenario yield an estimated increase in fees (transfer 
payments) of $563,880.\31\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \30\ 3,809 x $888 = 3,382,392. This figure is divided by three 
in order to account for the three-year registration cycle, resulting 
in $1,127,464 (figure is rounded).
    \31\ 3,809 x .5 = 1,905 (rounded). (1,905 x $888)/3 = $563,880.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Similarly, if 100 percent of the estimated 1,483 \32\ fee-paying 
registrations able to be consolidated currently operate under a 
practitioner that is using a single DEA registration to serve as the 
medical director of an EMS, there will be an annual reduction in 
transfer payments of $438,968.\33\ This transfer payment reduction is 
combined with the previously calculated reduction in transfers of 
$116,920 from the 806 MLP-AS registrations that will be consolidated, 
resulting in a total reduction in transfers of $555,888. However, if 0 
percent of agencies are operating in this manner, only the 806 MLP-AS 
consolidated registrations are relevant, resulting in a net increase in 
transfer payments of $1,010,544.\34\ Calculations for the 50 percent 
scenario yield an estimated reduction in fees (transfer payments) of 
$336,552.\35\ This results in a net increase of $227,328 for the 
midpoint scenario.\36\ Therefore, DEA estimates the annual net change 
in transfer payments as a result of this rule will range between a 
decrease of $555,888 and an increase of $1,010,544, with the midpoint 
of these estimates resulting in an increase of $227,328.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \32\ Sum of the ``Private Non-Hospital'' and ``Other EMS'' rows 
of the Non-MLP-AS Registrations Eliminated column of Table 1. 1,107 
+ 376 = 1,483.
    \33\ 1,483 x $888 = $1,316,904. This figure is divided by three 
in order to account for the three-year registration cycle, resulting 
in $438,968.
    \34\ $1,127,464 (calculated in note 27)-$116,920 = $1,010,544.
    \35\ 1,483 x .5 = 742 (rounded). ((742 x $888)/3) + $116,920 = 
$336,552.
    \36\ $563,880 (calculated in note 28)-$336,552 = $227,328.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    For the respective 0 percent, 50 percent, and 100 percent scenarios 
for the estimated annual change in transfer payments, DEA calculated 
the net present values at a 7 percent discount rate and a 3 percent 
discount rate over 12 years, or three registration cycles. The results 
of this analysis are summarized below in Table 2.

                                                     Table 2
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              100% of             50% of             0% of
                                                         registrations are  registrations are  registrations are
                                                            transferred        transferred        transferred
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Annual Change in Transfer Payments--MLP-AS                      $(116,920)         $(116,920)         $(116,920)
 (CONSOLIDATED)........................................
Annual Change in Transfer Payments--EMS Not Separately                   0            563,880          1,127,464
 Registered............................................
Annual change in Transfer Payments--EMS Not Separately           (438,968)          (219,632)                  0
 Registered (CONSOLIDATED).............................
                                                        --------------------------------------------------------
    Net Annual Change in Transfer Payments.............          (555,888)            227,328          1,010,544
    Net Present Value Over 12 Years (Discounted 7%)....        (4,415,244)          1,805,595          8,026,434
    Net Present Value Over 12 Years (Discounted 3%)....        (5,533,311)          2,262,824         10,058,959
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
All figures are rounded.

Labor Burden of Applications for DEA Registrations and Renewals

    As detailed previously, of the estimated 4,827 fee-paying EMS 
agency locations and 10,807 fee-exempt EMS agency locations not 
separately registered, only 3,809 and 9,110 (a total of 12,919) will 
require separate registrations after the promulgation of this rule, 
respectively. If 100 percent of these 12,919 EMS agencies will have an 
existing practitioner registration transferred from their medical 
director, there will be a decrease in labor burden

[[Page 5235]]

of $16,568,\37\ due to the estimated 4,413 \38\ unnecessary 
registration renewal applications that can be consolidated under one 
registration in a State. The previously calculated annual cost savings 
of $3,026 (see note 17) from the consolidation of existing MLP-AS 
registrants is added to this total, resulting in an annual total labor 
burden reduction of $19,594. The $19,594 decrease in labor burden 
results in a net present value of $155,629 at a 7 percent discount rate 
and $195,039 at a 3 percent discount rate over three registration 
cycles, or 12 years.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \37\ See approved burden estimates for DEA form 224A within the 
1117-0014 Supporting Statement <a href="https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201903-1117-005">https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201903-1117-005</a>. This labor burden estimate 
is derived by multiplying the loaded hourly wage for physicians 
($140.79) by the hour burden per electronic DEA form 224A (0.08), by 
the estimated number of forms (4,413). The product ($49,704.50) is 
then divided by three in order to account for the three-year 
registration renewal period.
    \38\ As calculated previously, there are 395 fee-paying and 411 
fee-exempt MLP-AS registrations that will be consolidated under a 
single registration in a State. Of the EMS agencies that are not 
separately registered, an estimated 3,607 can be consolidated under 
a single registration in a State. Combining 806 with 3,607 results 
in 4,413.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    However, if 0 percent of these 12,919 EMS agencies will have an 
existing practitioner registration transferred from their medical 
director, there will be a one-time increase in labor burden of $272,830 
\39\ due to the initial registration application paperwork for 12,919 
registrants, and a triennial labor burden increase of $136,431,\40\ due 
to 12,919 registration renewals every three years. DEA converted the 
one-time burden of $272,830 and the triennial burden of $136,431 into 
an annualized burden of $64,636 at a 7 percent rate and $60,131 at a 3 
percent rate over three registrations cycles, or 12 years.\41\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \39\ See approved burden estimates for DEA form 224 within the 
1117-0014 Supporting Statement <a href="https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201903-1117-005">https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201903-1117-005</a>. This labor burden estimate 
is derived by multiplying the loaded hourly wage for physicians 
($140.79) by the hour burden per electronic DEA form 224 (0.15), by 
the estimated number of forms (12,919). The result is rounded.
    \40\ See approved burden estimates for DEA form 224A within the 
1117-0014 Supporting Statement <a href="https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201903-1117-005">https://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAViewDocument?ref_nbr=201903-1117-005</a>. This labor burden estimate 
is derived by multiplying the loaded hourly wage for physicians 
($140.79) by the hour burden per electronic DEA form 224A (0.08), by 
the estimated number of forms (12,919), resulting in $145,509.28. 
This figure is reduced by $9,078 to account for the triennial cost 
savings from the consolidation of existing MLP-AS registrants 
calculated in note 17, resulting in $136,431.
    \41\ The present value of $272,830 in year 1 and $136,431 in 
years 4, 7, and 10 equal $598,549.04 at 3 percent and $513,380.84 at 
7 percent discount rates. Converting the respective present values 
into equal annual amounts at 3 percent and 7 percent discount rates 
for 12 years to account for three registration cycles yields the 
annualized burdens.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Finally, under the 50 percent scenario, there would be a one-time 
increase in labor burden of $136,426 \42\ due to the initial 
registration application paperwork for 6,460 registrants, and a 
triennial labor burden increase of $38,824,\43\ due to 4,253 
registration renewals every three years. DEA converted the one-time 
burden of $136,426 and the triennial burden of $38,824 into an 
annualized burden of $25,311 at a 7 percent rate and $22,845 at a 3 
percent rate over three registration cycles, or 12 years.\44\
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \42\ 12,919 x 0.5 = 6,460 registrants. $140.79 x 0.15 x 6,460 = 
$136,426. The result is rounded.
    \43\ (12,919 x 0.5)-(4,413 x 0.5) = 4,253. $140.79 x 0.08 x 
4,253 = $47,902 (rounded). This figure is reduced by $9,078 to 
account for the triennial cost savings from the consolidation of 
existing MLP-AS registrants calculated in note 17, resulting in 
$38,824.
    \44\ The present value of $136,426 in year 1 and $38,824 in 
years 4, 7, and 10 equal $227,403.22 at 3 percent and $201,033.37 at 
7 percent discount rates. Converting the respective present values 
into equal annual amounts at 3 percent and 7 percent discount rates 
for 12 years to account for three registration cycles yields the 
annualized burdens.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Table 3 summarizes the estimated net change in labor burden cost 
for both scenarios as a result of this rule.

                                                     Table 3
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                              100% of             50% of             0% of
                                                         registrations are  registrations are  registrations are
                                                            transferred        transferred        transferred
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Annualized Net Change in Labor Burden Over 12 Years              $(19,594)            $25,311            $64,636
 (Discounted 7%).......................................
Annualized Net Change in Labor Burden Over 12 Years               (19,594)             22,845             60,131
 (Discounted 3%).......................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Security and Recordkeeping Requirements

    Because some EMS agencies are currently registered under the 
practitioner business activity as MLP-AS, this rule adopts similar 
physical security controls for EMS agencies as practitioners. EMS 
agencies will be authorized to store controlled substances at EMS 
registered locations and designated locations inside of a securely 
locked, substantially constructed cabinet or safe that cannot be 
readily removed or an automated dispensing system; inside EMS vehicles 
stationed at registered or designated locations; inside locked EMS 
vehicles stationed at registered or designated unenclosed locations; 
and inside EMS vehicles that are actively in use by the agency. DEA 
expects currently unregistered EMS agencies to be operating in a 
similar manner as registered MLP-AS, and such EMS agencies are already 
in compliance with the minimum physical security requirements outlined 
above. Therefore, DEA expects the physical security requirements of 
this rule to be a codification of existing practice that will impose no 
costs.
    The recordkeeping provisions of this rule require EMS agencies to 
record the details of any administration, disposal, acquisition, 
distribution, or delivery of controlled substances and make these 
records readily retrievable. DEA believes that EMS agencies are already 
collecting and storing these records as a normal course of their 
business operations, and therefore these recordkeeping requirements 
will have no economic impact on EMS registrants. Designated EMS 
locations with vehicles that restock controlled substances at a 
hospital after an emergency event or receive controlled substances from 
another designated location must also notify the registered location of 
the EMS agency within 72 hours. Because designated EMS locations have 
72 hours to notify registered locations, and because designated and 
registered locations are likely to communicate on a more frequent basis 
during their normal course of business, DEA does not expect these 
events to require any additional communication between designated and 
registered locations. Therefore, this provision will also have no 
economic impact on EMS registrants.

Reducing Regulatory Uncertainty

    Prior to the CSA amendments of the ``Protecting Patient Access to 
Emergency Medications Act of 2017,'' the CSA did not explicitly explain 
exactly how its rules governing the administration, disposal, delivery, 
acquisition, and

[[Page 5236]]

distribution of controlled substances applied to EMS agencies. Most 
adhered to rules governing mid-level practitioners in the absence of 
regulation that addressed the unique circumstances of EMS operations, 
and advocacy groups frequently highlighted their concerns regarding the 
need for regulations to specifically address EMS operations.
    With the Act, and this rule codifying the resulting CSA amendments 
into DEA regulation, EMS registrants have clear rules that direct their 
behavior regarding controlled substances. DEA expects there to be 
benefits resulting from this reduction in regulatory uncertainty, 
especially the explicit authorization of standing and verbal orders, by 
allowing EMS vehicles to restock their supply of controlled substances 
at hospitals following an emergency, and by allowing EMS vehicles and 
hospitals to transfer controlled substances between each other in the 
event of a shortage, public health emergency, or mass casualty event. 
DEA does not have a method to quantify the impact of these reductions 
in regulatory uncertainty; however, DEA believes the regulatory clarity 
provided by this rule will result in a benefit to EMS agencies, EMS 
professionals, and the public.

Executive Order 12988, Civil Justice Reform

    The provisions of this regulation meet the applicable standards set 
forth in sections 3(a) and 3(b)(2) of E.O. 12988, Civil Justice Reform, 
to eliminate ambiguity, minimize litigation, provide a clear legal 
standard for affected conduct, and promote simplification and burden 
reduction.

Executive Order 13132, Federalism

    This rulemaking does not have federalism implications warranting 
the application of E.O. 13132. The rule does not have substantial 
direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national 
government and the States, or the distribution of power and 
responsibilities among the various levels of government.

Executive Order 13175, Consultation and Coordination With Indian Tribal 
Governments

    This rule does not have tribal implications warranting the 
application of E.O. 13175. It does not have direct effects on one or 
more Indian tribes via Indian Health Services.

Executive Order 14294, Overcriminalization of Federal Regulations

    Executive Order 14294 specifies that all notices of proposed 
rulemaking (NPRMs) and final rules published in the Federal Register, 
the violation of which may constitute criminal regulatory offenses, 
should include a statement identifying that the rule or proposed rule 
is a criminal regulatory offense, the authorizing statute, and the mens 
rea requirement for each element of the offense. Since this final rule 
does not involve a criminal regulatory offense, E.O. 14294 does not 
apply.

Regulatory Flexibility Act

    The Administrator, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act (5 U.S.C. 601-612) (RFA), has reviewed this rule and by approving 
it, certifies that it will not have a significant economic impact on a 
substantial number of small entities.
    The RFA requires agencies to analyze options for regulatory relief 
of small entities unless it can certify that the rule will not have a 
significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. For 
purposes of the RFA, small entities include small businesses, nonprofit 
organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions. DEA evaluated the 
impact of this rule on small entities, and discussions of its findings 
are below.
    As discussed in the above economic analysis of the rule, because 
DEA is not able to identify how many EMS agencies currently operate 
under the practitioner registration of their medical director, DEA 
chose to assess the impact of this rule by considering the full range 
of possible scenarios. Thus, DEA considered the impact of the rule if 0 
percent, 50 percent, or 100 percent of EMS agencies receive an existing 
DEA registration from a practitioner. For the purposes of this 
analysis, DEA conservatively assumes that 0 percent of EMS agencies 
will have a DEA registration transferred from a practitioner because 
this is the scenario with the largest possible economic impact on 
affected entities, including small entities.
    There are three types of EMS agencies that are affected by this 
rule: hospital-based, private, and governmental. Of these types, some 
agencies currently hold their own DEA registrations while others 
operate under the registration of another DEA registrant. As detailed 
previously, DEA estimated that 3,809 private EMS agencies and 9,110 
governmental EMS agencies are currently not separately registered with 
DEA, while 1,018 private EMS agencies and 1,697 governmental EMS 
agencies are currently registered with DEA. Additionally, there are an 
estimated total of 1,236 hospital entities \45\ that are affected by 
this rule. DEA assumes all EMS agencies are affected in some way by 
this rule; therefore, this final rule is expected to affect a 
substantial number of small entities.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \45\ DEA does not have the ability to identify how many hospital 
registrants operate an EMS agency under the hospital's registration. 
However, DEA used NHTSA's national EMS assessment data to estimate 
the total number of hospital-based EMS agencies to be 1,236 (see 
Table 1). Therefore, DEA considers 1,236 hospital entities to be 
affected by this rule.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    These three types of entities are affected by at least one of the 
following four quantifiable impacts of the rule: registration fees, 
recordkeeping and security requirements, the labor burden of obtaining 
a DEA registration, and the labor burden of renewing a DEA 
registration. Only the 4,827 private EMS agencies are affected by 
registration fees. Governmental EMS agencies are fee-exempt and 
hospital-based agencies can continue to operate under their hospital's 
registration. All three types of entities, whether separately 
registered or not, are affected by the security and recordkeeping 
requirements of the rule. However, there is no impact because these 
entities are expected to already be in compliance with these 
requirements. Both the estimated 3,809 private agencies and 9,110 
governmental agencies not separately registered must incur the labor 
burden of registering and renewing their registration with DEA every 
three years. Hospital-based agencies already incur this labor burden 
and this rule will have no further impact on these entities. The 
following table summarizes the estimated impact of the provisions of 
the rule for each type of EMS agency.

[[Page 5237]]



                                                                         Table 4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                  Provisions of proposed rule
                                      ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            Registration fees            Records & security              DEA form 224                DEA form 224A
                                      ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                        Affected     Impact  per     Affected     Impact  per     Affected     Impact  per     Affected    Impact  per
                                        entities     entity \46\     entities       entity        entities     entity \47\     entities    entity \48\
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hospital-based EMS...................        N/A              N/A       1,236               $0         N/A              N/A         N/A              N/A
Private EMS..........................      3,809             $265       4,827                0       3,809              $21       3,809               $4
Government EMS.......................        N/A              N/A      10,807                0       9,110               21       9,110                4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    DEA compared the combined annual economic impact per entity of the 
rule with the annual revenue of the smallest of small entities in each 
affected industry sector. For each of the affected industry sectors, 
the annual increase was not more than 0.66 percent of average annual 
revenue for the smallest entities. The table below summarizes the 
results.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \46\ The impact per entity of registration fees is calculated by 
dividing the net annual change in transfer payments for the 0 
percent range in Table 2 ($1,010,544) by the number of affected 
private entities (3,809). The final figure is rounded to the nearest 
whole dollar.
    \47\ The impact per entity of the labor burden for DEA form 224 
is found by dividing the total labor burden for DEA form 224 
calculated in note 36 ($272,830) by the number of affected entities 
(12,919). The final figure is rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
    \48\ The impact per entity of the labor burden for DEA form 224A 
is found by first dividing the triennial labor burden for DEA form 
224A calculated in note 37 ($145,509) by three to account for the 
three-year registration cycle. This annualized labor burden 
($48,503) is then divided by the number of affected entities 
(12,919). The final figure is rounded to the nearest whole dollar.

                                                     Table 5
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                             Number of         Average
                        NAICS code         Number of         smallest        revenue per      Annual    Impact %
     NAICS code         description        affected          affected         smallest      impact per     of
                                           entities          entities          entity       entity ($)   revenue
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
622110.............  General Medical              1,236                20        $190,600           $0      0.00
                      and Surgical
                      Hospitals.
621910.............  Ambulance                   16,239               373          44,150          290      0.66
                      Services.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

    While this rule affects a substantial number of small entities, 
because the economic impact for the smallest entities is not 
significant, the final rule will not have a significant impact on small 
entities as a whole. In summary, DEA's evaluation of economic impact by 
size category indicates that the rule, if promulgated, will not have a 
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.

Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995

    In accordance with the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act (UMRA) of 1995, 
2 U.S.C. 1501 et seq., DEA has determined that this action will not 
result in any Federal mandate that may result ``in the expenditure by 
State, local, and tribal governments, in the aggregate, or by the 
private sector, of $100,000,000 or more (adjusted for inflation) in any 
one year.'' Therefore, neither a Small Government Agency Plan nor any 
other action is required under URMA of 1995.

Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995

    Pursuant to section 3507(d) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 
(PRA) (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), OMB approved the following information 
collections related to this rule on April 11, 2025, issuing the new 
expiration date of April 30, 2028.\49\ This final rule will update 
DEA's regulations to provide for registration of EMS agencies and to 
require EMS agencies to maintain certain records and provide notice to 
DEA in certain circumstances. A person is not required to respond to a 
collection of information unless it displays a valid OMB control 
number. Copies of existing information collections approved by OMB may 
be obtained at <a href="http://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAMain">http://www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAMain</a>.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

    \49\ On January 10, 2025, DEA submitted Information Collection 
1117-0060: Emergency Medical Services Recordkeeping and Notice 
Requirement, and 1117-0014: Application for Registration (DEA Form 
224), Application for Registration Renewal (DEA Form 224A) to the 
Office of Management and Budget for review and approval. In 
accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act, OMB approved these 
information collections on April 11, 2025. The new expiration date 
for these information collections is April 30, 2028.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

A. Collections of Information Associated With the Rule
    1. Title: Emergency Medical Services Recordkeeping and Notice 
Requirements.
    OMB Control Number: 1117-0060.
    Form Number: N/A.
    OMB approved Information Collection 1117-0060: Emergency Medical 
Services Recordkeeping and Notice Requirements on April 11, 2025. This 
newly approved collection of information establishes new recordkeeping 
and notice requirements for EMS agencies.
    For each EMS professional employed by a registered EMS agency, the 
agency is required to maintain documents, as required by the State in 
which the professional practices, which describe the conditions and 
extent of the professional's authorization to dispense or administer 
controlled substances and must make such documents available for 
inspection and copying by authorized employees of the Administration.
    EMS agencies are also required to maintain records of all 
controlled substances received, administered, or otherwise disposed of. 
Such records must be maintained, whether electronically or otherwise, 
at each registered and designated location of the agency where such 
controlled substances are received, administered, or otherwise disposed 
of.
    For each dose of controlled substances administered or disposed of 
in the course of providing emergency medical services, these records 
must include: (1) the name of the substance; (2) the finished form of 
the substance;

[[Page 5238]]

(3) the date the substance was administered or disposed of; (4) 
identification of the patient, if applicable; (5) amount administered; 
(6) the last name or initials of the person who administered the 
substance; (7) the last name or initials of the medical director or 
authorizing medical professional issuing the standing or verbal order; 
(8) the amount disposed of, if applicable; (9) the manner disposed of; 
and (10) the last name or initials of the person who disposed of the 
substance and of one witness to the disposal.
    For controlled substances acquired from or distributed to another 
registrant, the records must include: (1) the name of the substance; 
(2) the finished form of the substance; (3) the number of units or 
volume of finished form in each commercial container; (4) the number of 
units or volume of finished form and commercial containers transferred; 
(5) the date of the transfer; (6) name, address, and registration 
number of the person to or from whom the substance was transferred; and 
(7) the name and title of the person in receipt of the transferred 
substance.
    For deliveries of controlled substances between a designated 
location and a registered location--except hospital-based agencies 
restocking at the hospital under which the agency is operating--the 
records must include: (1) the name of the substance; (2) the finished 
form of the substance; (3) the number of units or volume of finished 
form in each commercial container; (4) the number of units or volume of 
finished form and commercial containers transferred; (5) the date of 
the transfer; (6) the name and address of the designated location to 
which the substance is delivered; and (7) the name and title of the 
person in receipt of the transferred substance.
    For destruction of a controlled substance (e.g., expired 
inventory), the records must include: (1) the name of the substance; 
(2) the finished form of the substance; (3) the number of units or 
volume of finished form in each commercial container; (4) the number of 
units or volume of finished form and commercial containers destroyed; 
(5) the date of the destruction; (6) the name, address, and 
registration number of the person to whom the substance was 
distributed, if applicable; and (7) the name and title of the person 
destroying the substance.
    Additionally, designated locations of EMS agencies must notify 
their registered locations within 72 hours of any receipt of controlled 
substances in the following circumstances: (1) an EMS vehicle primarily 
situated at the designated location acquires controlled substances from 
a hospital while restocking following an emergency response; or (2) a 
designated location receives controlled substances from another 
designated location of the same EMS agency.
    DEA does not have a good basis to estimate the number of 
respondents and burden related to this collection of information, 
because there is no available data regarding the administration, 
receipt, delivery, acquisition or distribution, and disposal of 
controlled substances specific to the operation of EMS agencies. 
Therefore, DEA submits the following estimated number of respondents 
and burden associated with this collection of information and will 
update this estimate with data when the collection is renewed:
    Number of respondents: 21,283.
    Frequency of response: average of 52 per year.
    Number of responses: average of 1,106,716 per year.
    Burden per response: .0833 hour.
    Total annual hour burden: 92,226 hours.
    Figures are rounded.
    2. Title: Application for Registration-DEA 224, Application for 
Registration Renewal-DEA 224A.
    OMB Control Number: 1117-0014.
    Form Numbers: DEA-224, DEA-224A.
    OMB approved Information Collection 1117-0014: Application for 
Registration-DEA 224, Application for Registration Renewal-DEA 224A on 
April 11, 2025. This revised collection of information establishes new 
registration rules for EMS agencies.
    Under Sec.  1301.13, EMS agencies, if authorized by State law, may 
register as a new type of business activity. A new ``EMS Agency'' 
business activity is added to the application for registration and 
application for registration renewal forms to allow EMS agencies to 
obtain a DEA registration that permits EMS agencies to deliver 
controlled substances to their designated locations without obtaining a 
separate registration as a Distributor. This registration allows EMS 
personnel to administer controlled substances outside the physical 
presence of a medical director or authorizing medical professional in 
the course of providing emergency medical services. Upon issuance of an 
EMS agency registration, the EMS agency should use the online system to 
identify all of the locations it intends to designate under the EMS 
agencies' DEA registration.
    To lessen the burden for EMS agencies with several stationhouses in 
a single State, DEA allows EMS agencies to choose the option of a 
single registration in each State where the EMS agency operates. If the 
agency operates EMS facilities in multiple States, the agency must have 
a separate registration in each State where the agency operates.
    DEA estimates the following number of respondents and burden 
associated with this collection of information:
    Number of respondents: 621,472.
    Frequency of response: 1 per year.
    Number of responses: 621,472 per year.
    Burden per response: 0.10 hour.
    Total annual hour burden: 65,943 hours.
    Figures are rounded.
    The activities described in this information collection are usual 
and ordinary business activities and no additional cost is anticipated.
    If you need additional information, please contact the Regulatory 
Drafting and Policy Support Section (DPW), Diversion Control Divisions, 
Drug Enforcement Administration; Mailing Address: 8701 Morrissette 
Drive, Springfield, Virginia 22152; Telephone: (571) 776-2265.
    Any additional comments on this collection of information may be 
sent in writing to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 
OMB, Attention: Desk Officer for DOJ, Washington, DC 20503. Please 
state that your comments refer to RIN 1117-AB37/Docket No. DEA-377.

List of Subjects

21 CFR Part 1300

    Chemicals, Drug traffic control.

21 CFR Part 1301

    Administrative practice and procedure, Drug traffic control, 
Exports, Imports, Security measures.

21 CFR Part 1304

    Drug traffic control, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

21 CFR Part 1306

    Drug traffic control, Prescription drugs.

21 CFR Part 1307

    Drug traffic control.

    For the reasons stated in the preamble, the Drug Enforcement 
Administration is amending 21 CFR parts 1300, 1301, 1304, 1306, and 
1307 as follows:

PART 1300--DEFINITIONS

0
1. The authority citation for part 1300 continues to read as follows:

    Authority:  21 U.S.C. 802, 821, 822, 829, 871(b), 951, 958(f).


[[Page 5239]]



0
2. Add Sec.  1300.06 to read as follows:


Sec.  1300.06   Definitions relating to emergency medical services 
agencies.

    (a) Any term not defined in this part shall have the definition set 
forth in section 102 of the Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
    (b) As used in parts 1301, 1304, 1306, and 1307 of this chapter, 
the following terms shall have the meanings specified:
    (1) Actively in use means the vehicle is currently engaged in 
responding to an emergency call, is transporting patients, or is on 
call as defined in this Part.
    (2) Authorizing medical professional means an emergency or other 
physician, or other medical professional (including an advanced 
practice registered nurse or physician assistant)--
    (i) Who is registered under 21 U.S.C. 823;
    (ii) Who is acting within the scope of the registration; and
    (iii) Whose scope of practice under a State license or 
certification includes the ability to provide verbal orders.
    (3) Designated location means a location designated by an emergency 
medical services agency under 21 U.S.C. 823(k)(5).
    (4) Emergency medical services mean emergency medical response and 
emergency mobile medical services provided outside of a fixed medical 
facility.
    (5) Emergency medical services agency means an organization 
providing emergency medical services, including such an organization 
that--
    (i) Is governmental (including fire-based and hospital-based 
agencies), non-governmental (including hospital-based agencies), 
private, or volunteer-based;
    (ii) Provides emergency medical services by ground, air, or 
otherwise; and
    (iii) Is authorized by the State in which the organization is 
providing such services to provide emergency medical care, including 
the administering of controlled substances, to members of the general 
public on an emergency basis.
    (6) Emergency medical services professional means a health care 
professional (including a nurse, paramedic, or emergency medical 
technician) licensed or certified by the State in which the 
professional practices and credentialed by a medical director of the 
respective emergency medical services agency to provide emergency 
medical services within the scope of the professional's State license 
or certification.
    (7) Emergency medical services vehicle means an ambulance, fire 
apparatus, supervisor truck, or other vehicle used by an emergency 
medical services agency for the purpose of providing or facilitating 
emergency medical care and transport or transporting controlled 
substances to and from the registered and designated locations.
    (8) Hospital-based means, with respect to an emergency medical 
services agency, owned or operated by a hospital.
    (9) Medical director means a physician who is registered under 21 
U.S.C. 823(g) and provides medical oversight to an emergency medical 
services agency.
    (10) Medical oversight means supervision of the provision of 
medical care by an emergency medical services agency.
    (11) On call means that the emergency medical services vehicle and 
its personnel are ready and available to respond but may not be 
responding to an emergency at that precise moment.
    (12) Registered emergency services agency means--
    (i) An emergency medical services agency that is registered under 
21 U.S.C. 823(k); or
    (ii) A hospital-based emergency medical services agency that is 
covered by the registration of the hospital under subsection 823(g).
    (13) Registered location means, for purposes of emergency medical 
services, a location that appears on a DEA certificate of registration 
issued to an emergency medical services agency under 21 U.S.C. 823(k) 
or 21 U.S.C. 823(g), which shall be where the agency receives 
controlled substances from distributors.
    (14) Specific State authority means a governmental agency or other 
such authority, including a regional oversight and coordinating body, 
that, pursuant to State law or regulation, develops clinical protocols 
regarding the delivery of emergency medical services in the geographic 
jurisdiction of such agency or authority within the State that may be 
adopted by medical directors.
    (15) Standing order means a written medical protocol in which a 
medical director determines in advance the medical criteria that must 
be met before administering controlled substances to individuals in 
need of emergency medical services.
    (16) Stationhouse means an enclosed structure within a State where 
the emergency medical services agency is registered, which may house 
EMS vehicles at its premises, and which is actively and primarily being 
used by that emergency medical services agency.
    (17) Verbal order means an oral directive that is given through any 
method of communication including by radio or telephone, directly to an 
emergency medical services professional, to contemporaneously 
administer a controlled substance to individuals in need of emergency 
medical services outside the physical presence of the medical director 
or authorizing medical professional.

PART 1301--REGISTRATION OF MANUFACTURERS, DISTRIBUTORS, AND 
DISPENSERS OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES

0
3. The authority citation for part 1301 is revised to read as follows:

    Authority:  21 U.S.C. 821, 822, 823, 824, 831, 871(b), 875, 877, 
886a, 951, 952, 956, 957, 958, 965.


0
4. In Sec.  1301.12, add paragraph (b)(5) to read as follows:


Sec.  1301.12   Separate registrations for separate locations.

* * * * *
    (b) * * *
    (5) A designated location that a registered emergency medical 
services agency has identified to the Administration at least 30 days 
prior to first delivering controlled substances to that unregistered 
location.
* * * * *

0
5. In Sec.  1301.13:
0
a. Revise paragraph (d);
0
b. Redesignate paragraphs (e)(1)(v) through (x) as paragraphs 
(e)(1)(vi) through (xi); and
0
c. Add new paragraph (e)(1)(v).
    The revision and addition read as follows:


Sec.  1301.13   Application for registration; time for application; 
expiration date; registration for independent activities; application 
forms, fees, contents and signature; coincident activities.

* * * * *
    (d) At the time a retail pharmacy, hospital/clinic, practitioner, 
emergency medical services agency or teaching institution is first 
registered, that business activity shall be assigned to one of twelve 
groups, which correspond to the months of the year. The expiration date 
of the registrations of all registrants within any group will be the 
last day of the month designated for that group. In assigning any of 
the above business activities to a group, the Administration may select 
a group the expiration date of which is not less than 28 months nor 
more than 39 months from the date such business activity was 
registered. After the initial registration period, the registration 
expires 36 months from the initial expiration date.
    (e) * * *

[[Page 5240]]

    (1) * * *

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                           Application fee    Registration      Coincident activities
          Business activity              Controlled substances     DEA application forms         ($)         period (years)            allowed
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                                                      * * * * * * *
(v) Emergency Medical Services Agency  Schedules II-V..........  New--224; Renewal--224a.             888                3
 
                                                                      * * * * * * *
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

* * * * *

0
6. Add Sec.  1301.20 under undesignated heading ``Registration'' to 
read as follows:


Sec.  1301.20   Registration for emergency medical services agencies.

    (a) An emergency medical services agency shall be issued a 
registration under Sec.  1301.13 if the agency submits an application 
demonstrating it is authorized to conduct such activity under the laws 
of each State in which the agency practices, unless the Administration 
determines that the issuance of such a registration would be 
inconsistent with the requirements of 21 U.S.C. 823(k) or the public 
interest based on the factors listed in 21 U.S.C. 823(g).
    (1) An agency has the option of requesting a single registration in 
each State where the agency administers controlled substances in lieu 
of a separate registration for each location of the agency within a 
State.
    (2) If a hospital where an emergency medical services agency is 
based is registered under Sec.  1301.13, the agency may use the 
registration of the hospital to administer controlled substances in 
accordance with Sec.  1306.07(g) of this chapter, without being 
separately registered as an emergency medical services agency.
    (b) A registered emergency medical services agency may deliver 
controlled substances from a registered location of the agency to an 
unregistered location of the agency only if the agency designates the 
unregistered location as a stationhouse for such delivery; and notifies 
the Administration at least 30 days prior to the first delivery of 
controlled substances to the unregistered location. The delivery of 
controlled substances by a registered emergency medical services agency 
pursuant to this section shall not be treated as distribution. To 
notify the Administration, the emergency medical services agency must 
submit the name and physical address of the designated location online 
at <a href="http://www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov">www.DEAdiversion.usdoj.gov</a>.


Sec. Sec.  1301.78 and 1301.79   [Reserved]

0
7. Add and reserve Sec. Sec.  1301.78 and 1301.79 under undesignated 
heading ``Security Requirements'';

0
8. Add Sec.  1301.80 under undesignated heading ``Security 
Requirements'' to read as follows:


Sec.  1301.80   Security controls for emergency medical services 
agencies.

    (a) Secured Storage Locations. A registered emergency medical 
services agency may store controlled substances at any of the following 
secured locations:
    (1) A registered location of the agency;
    (2) A designated location of the agency 30 days following 
notification to DEA in accordance with Sec.  1301.20;
    (3) In an emergency medical services vehicle situated at a 
registered location or designated location of the agency; or
    (4) In an emergency medical services vehicle used by the agency 
that is traveling from, or returning to, a registered location or 
designated location of the agency while responding to an emergency, or 
when the emergency medical services vehicle is actively in use by the 
agency.
    (b) Vehicle Locking Requirements. An emergency medical services 
vehicle storing controlled substances must be locked when parked 
outside of an enclosed registered or designated location, or when it is 
actively in use and left unattended during non-emergency stops. An 
emergency medical services vehicle storing controlled substances does 
not need to be locked only if:
    (1) It is parked within an enclosed registered or designated 
location;
    (2) It is at the scene of an emergency; or
    (3) Emergency services personnel are in attendance. This includes 
situations when personnel are physically present and able to monitor 
the vehicle; such as when the vehicle is traveling to or from the scene 
of an emergency, or it is at public displays or educational events.
    (c) Storage Components. Except when emergency medical services 
personnel are carrying controlled substances on their person or in a 
jump bag as set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, a registered 
emergency medical services agency must store controlled substances in a 
storage component that is identified as:
    (1) A securely locked, substantially constructed cabinet or safe 
that cannot be readily removed; which is located at a secured location 
specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section; or
    (2) An automated dispensing machine as defined in Sec.  1300.01; 
which is
    (i) Located at a secured location specified in paragraphs (a)(1) 
and (2) of this section;
    (ii) Installed and operated by the emergency medical services 
agency;
    (iii) Not used to directly dispense controlled substances to an 
ultimate user; and is
    (iv) In compliance with the requirements of State law.
    (d) Carrying Controlled Substances During Emergencies. Emergency 
medical services agency personnel may carry controlled substances on 
their person or in a jump bag instead of storing the controlled 
substances in a safe when responding to an emergency. The controlled 
substances must be returned to a storage component as described in 
paragraph (c) of this section when emergency medical services agency 
personnel are not currently engaged in responding to an emergency.

PART 1304--RECORDS AND REPORTS OF REGISTRANTS

0
9. The authority citation for part 1304 is revised to read as follows:

    Authority:  21 U.S.C. 821, 823(j), 827, 831, 871(b), 958(e)-(g), 
and 965, unless otherwise noted.


0
10. In Sec.  1304.03, add paragraphs (i) and (j) to read as follows:


Sec.  1304.03   Persons required to keep records and file reports.

* * * * *
    (i) For each emergency medical services professional employed by a 
registered emergency services agency,

[[Page 5241]]

the registered agency must maintain in a readily retrievable manner 
those documents (as required by the State in which an emergency medical 
services professional practices), which describe the conditions and 
extent of the professional's authorization to dispense controlled 
substances, and must make such documents available for inspection and 
copying by authorized employees of the Administration. Examples of such 
documentation include protocols, practice guidelines, or practice 
agreements.
    (j) A registered emergency medical services agency shall maintain 
records, as described in Sec.  1304.27, of all controlled substances 
that are received, administered, or otherwise disposed of pursuant to 
the agency's registration.

0
11. In Sec.  1304.04, revise paragraph (a) introductory text and add 
paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) to read as follows:


Sec.  1304.04   Maintenance of records and inventories.

    (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this 
section, every inventory and other record required to be kept under 
this part must be kept by the registrant and be available for 
inspection and copying by authorized employees of the Administration, 
for at least 2 years from the date of such inventory or record.
* * * * *
    (4) Records shall include records of deliveries of controlled 
substances between all locations of the agency.
    (5) Records shall be maintained, whether electronically or 
otherwise, at each registered and designated location of the agency 
where the controlled substances involved are received, administered, or 
otherwise disposed of.
* * * * *

0
12. Add Sec.  1304.27 to read as follows:


Sec.  1304.27   Additional recordkeeping requirements applicable to 
emergency medical services agencies.

    (a) Each emergency medical services agency registered pursuant to 
Sec.  1301.20 of this chapter (including a hospital-based emergency 
medical services agency using a hospital registration under Sec.  
1301.20(a)(2) of this chapter) must maintain records for each dose of 
controlled substances administered or disposed of in the course of 
providing emergency medical services. The following information shall 
be included in each record:
    (1) Name of the substance;
    (2) Finished form of the substance (e.g., 10-milligram tablet or 
10-milligram concentration per fluid ounce or milliliter);
    (3) Date administered or disposed of;
    (4) Identification of the patient (consumer), if applicable;
    (5) Amount administered;
    (6) Last name or initials of the person who administered the 
controlled substance;
    (7) Last name or initials of the medical director or authorizing 
medical professional issuing the standing or verbal order;
    (8) Whether a standing or verbal order was issued and adopted;
    (9) Amount disposed of, if applicable;
    (10) Manner disposed of; and
    (11) Last name or initials of person who disposed and witness to 
disposal, if applicable.
    (b) For each acquisition of a controlled substance from another 
registrant, or each distribution of a controlled substance to another 
registrant, each emergency medical services agency registered pursuant 
to Sec.  1301.20 of this chapter must maintain records with all of the 
following information:
    (1) For each acquisition of a controlled substance from another 
registrant:
    (i) Name of the substance;
    (ii) Finished form of the substance (e.g., 10-milligram tablet or 
10-milligram concentration per fluid ounce or milliliter);
    (iii) Number of units or volume of finished form in each commercial 
container;
    (iv) Number of commercial containers acquired (e.g., 100-tablet 
bottle or 3-milliliter vial);
    (v) Date of the acquisition;
    (vi) Name, address, and registration number of the person from whom 
the substance was acquired; and
    (vii) Name and title of the person acquiring the controlled 
substance.
    (2) For each distribution of a controlled substance to another 
registrant:
    (i) Name of the substance;
    (ii) Finished form of the substance (e.g., 10-milligram tablet or 
10-milligram concentration per fluid ounce or milliliter);
    (iii) Number of units or volume of finished form in each commercial 
container (e.g., 100-tablet bottle or 3-milliliter vial);
    (iv) Number of commercial containers distributed;
    (v) Date of the distribution;
    (vi) Name, address, and registration number of the person to whom 
the substance was distributed; and
    (vii) Name and title of the person in receipt of the distributed 
controlled substances.
    (3) For each delivery of controlled substances between a designated 
location and a registered location:
    (i) Name of the substance;
    (ii) Finished form of the substance (e.g., 10-milligram tablet or 
10-milligram concentration per fluid ounce or milliliter);
    (iii) Number of units or volume of finished form in each commercial 
container (e.g., 100-tablet bottle or 3-milliliter vial);
    (iv) Number of units or volume of finished form in each commercial 
container and number of commercial containers delivered (e.g., 100-
tablet bottle or 3-milliliter vial);
    (v) Date of the delivery;
    (vi) Name and address of the designated location to which the 
substance is delivered; and
    (vii) Name and title of the person in receipt of the controlled 
substances.
    (4) For destruction of a controlled substance:
    (i) Name of the substance;
    (ii) Finished form of the substance (e.g., 10-milligram tablet or 
10-milligram concentration per fluid ounce or milliliter);
    (iii) Number of units or volume of finished form in each commercial 
container (e.g., 100-tablet bottle or 3-milliliter vial);
    (iv) Number of units or volume of finished form in each commercial 
container and number of commercial containers destroyed (e.g., 100-
tablet bottle or 3-milliliter vial);
    (v) Date of the destruction;
    (vi) Manner of disposal of the substance, if applicable;
    (vii) Name, address, and registration number of the person to whom 
the substance was distributed, if applicable; and
    (viii) Name and title of the person destroying the controlled 
substance.
    (c) A designated location of an emergency medical services agency 
that receives controlled substances must notify the agency's registered 
location within 72 hours of receipt of the controlled substances, in 
the following circumstances:
    (1) An emergency medical services vehicle primarily situated at a 
designated location of the emergency medical services agency acquires 
controlled substances from a hospital while restocking following an 
emergency response;
    (2) The designated location of the emergency medical services 
agency receives controlled substances from another designated location 
of the same agency.

PART 1306--PRESCRIPTIONS

0
13. The authority citation for part 1306 is revised to read as follows:


[[Page 5242]]


    Authority:  21 U.S.C. 821, 823(k), 829, 831, 871(b), unless 
otherwise noted.


0
14. Revise Sec.  1306.01 to read as follows:


Sec.  1306.01   Scope of part 1306.

    This part sets forth the process and procedures for dispensing, by 
way of prescribing and administering controlled substances to ultimate 
users. The purpose of such procedures is to provide safe and efficient 
methods for dispensing controlled substances while providing effective 
controls against diversion.

0
15. Amend Sec.  1306.07 by adding paragraphs (g) and (h) to read as 
follows:


Sec.  1306.07   Administering or dispensing of narcotic drugs.

* * * * *
    (e) An emergency medical services professional of a registered 
emergency medical services agency may administer directly (but not 
prescribe) controlled substances in schedules II-V outside the physical 
presence of a medical director or authorizing medical professional 
while providing emergency medical services if the administration is 
authorized by law of the State in which it occurs, and is pursuant to:
    (1) A standing order that is issued and adopted by one or more 
medical directors of the agency, including any such order that may be 
developed by a specific State's authority; or
    (2) A verbal order that is:
    (i) Issued in accordance with a policy of the agency; and
    (ii) Provided by a medical director or an authorizing medical 
professional in response to a request by the emergency medical services 
professional with respect to a specific patient --
    (A) In the case of a mass casualty incident; or
    (B) To ensure the proper care and treatment of a specific patient.
    (f) An emergency medical services agency shall maintain, at a 
registered location of the agency, a record of the standing or verbal 
orders issued or adopted in accordance with Sec.  1304.13 of this 
chapter.

PART 1307--MISCELLANEOUS

0
16. The authority citation for part 1307 is revised to read as follows:

    Authority:  21 U.S.C. 821, 822(d), 823(k), 871(b), unless 
otherwise noted.


0
17. Add Sec. Sec.  1307.14 and 1307.15 under undesignated heading 
``Special Exceptions for Manufacture and Distribution of Controlled 
Substances'' to read as follows:


Sec.  1307.14   Delivery of controlled substances to designated 
locations of emergency medical services agencies.

    (a) Notwithstanding the definition of registered location in Sec.  
1300.06 of this chapter, a registered emergency medical services agency 
may receive controlled substances from a hospital for purposes of 
restocking an emergency medical services vehicle following an emergency 
response, and without being subject to the requirements of Sec.  
1305.03 of this chapter, provided all of the following criteria are 
met:
    (1) The registered or designated location of the agency operating 
the vehicle maintains the record of such receipt in accordance with 
Sec.  1304.27(b) of this chapter;
    (2) The hospital maintains a record of such delivery to the agency 
in accordance with Sec.  1304.22(c) of this chapter; and
    (3) If the vehicle is primarily situated at a designated location 
of an emergency medical services agency, such location notifies the 
registered location of the agency within 72 hours of the vehicle 
receiving the controlled substances.


Sec.  1307.15   Delivery of controlled substances in emergency 
situations.

    (a) Hospitals and emergency medical services agencies' registered 
locations and designated locations may deliver controlled substances to 
each other, with written approval from the Special Agent in Charge of 
DEA for the area or DEA Headquarters, in the event of:
    (1) Shortages of such substances;
    (2) A public health emergency; or
    (3) A mass casualty event.
    (b) Reserved.

Signing Authority

    This document of the Drug Enforcement Administration was signed on 
January 30, 2026, by Administrator Terrance Cole. That document with 
the original signature and date is maintained by DEA. For 
administrative purposes only, and in compliance with requirements of 
the Office of the Federal Register, the undersigned DEA Federal 
Register Liaison Officer has been authorized to sign and submit the 
document in electronic format for publication, as an official document 
of DEA. This administrative process in no way alters the legal effect 
of this document upon publication in the Federal Register.

Alana Moore,
Federal Register Liaison Officer, Drug Enforcement Administration.
[FR Doc. 2026-02288 Filed 2-3-26; 4:15 pm]
BILLING CODE 4410-09-P


</pre></body>
</html>