5150 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 23 / Wednesday, February 4, 2026 / Notices 
facilitation, liability and 
compensation-related conventions 
(7.1) 
—Validated model training courses (6.2) 
—Development of amendments to 
SOLAS chapter II–2 and the FSS Code 
concerning detection and control of 
fires in cargo holds and on the cargo 
deck of containerships (7.15) 
—Development of provisions to 
consider prohibiting the use of fire- 
fighting foams containing fluorinated 
substances, in addition to PFOS, for 
fire-fighting on board ships (7.41) 
—Comprehensive review of the 
Requirements for maintenance, 
thorough examination, operational 
testing, overhaul and repair of 
lifeboats and rescue boats, launching 
appliances and release gear 
(resolution MSC.402(96)) to address 
challenges with their implementation 
(7.29) 
—Amendments to the LSA Code for 
thermal performance of immersion 
suits (7.19) 
—Evaluation of adequacy of fire 
protection, detection and extinction 
arrangements in vehicle, special 
category and ro-ro spaces in order to 
reduce the fire risk of ships carrying 
new energy vehicles (7.37) 
—Development of a safety regulatory 
framework to support the reduction of 
GHG emissions from ships using new 
technologies and alternative fuels 
(3.8) 
—Biennial status report and provisional 
agenda for SSE 13 
—Election of Chair and Vice-Chair for 
2027 
—Any other business 
—Report to the Maritime Safety 
Committee. 
Please note: The IMO may, on short notice, 
adjust the SSE 12 agenda to accommodate 
any constraints associated with the meeting. 
Although no changes to the agenda are 
anticipated, if any are necessary, they will be 
provided to those who RSVP. 
Those who plan to participate may 
contact the meeting coordinator, LT 
Huston Helwig, by email at 
Huston.Helwig@uscg.mil, by phone at 
(206) 827–1553, or in writing at ATTN: 
LT Huston Helwig, 2703 Martin Luther 
King Jr. Ave. SE, Stop 7509, 
Washington, DC 20593–7509, by 
February 23, 2026. Members of the 
public needing reasonable 
accommodation should advise LT 
Huston Helwig no later than February 
23, 2026. Requests made after that date 
will be considered but might not be 
possible to fulfill. 
Additional information regarding this 
and other IMO public meetings may be 
found at: https://www.dco.uscg.mil/ 
IMO. 
(Authority: 22 U.S.C. 2656 and 5 U.S.C. 552.) 
Emily C. Miletello, 
Coast Guard Liaison Officer, Office of Ocean 
and Polar Affairs, U.S. Department of State. 
[FR Doc. 2026–02209 Filed 2–3–26; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 4710–09–P 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
Federal Aviation Administration 
[Docket No. FAA–2024–0661] 
FAA Aircraft Noise Complaint and 
Inquiry System (Noise Portal); 
Correction 
AGENCY: Federal Aviation 
Administration (FAA), U.S. Department 
of Transportation (DOT). 
ACTION: Notice; correction. 
SUMMARY: On January 20, 2026, FAA 
published a notice regarding the FAA 
Aircraft Noise Complaint and Inquiry 
System (Noise Portal) that omitted the 
docket number. This document corrects 
that omission. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT : 
Nitin Rao, Manager, National 
Engagement Strategy and Policy 
Division (ARA–200), Federal Aviation 
Administration, by email at: 9-APL- 
ANCIR-Comments@faa.gov; or by 
phone: 202–267–0965. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 
Correction 
In the Federal Register of January 20, 
2026, in FR Doc. 2026–00943, on page 
2416, in the second column, in the 
document heading, correct the docket 
number to read: [Docket No. FAA– 
2024–0661]. 
Nitin Rao, 
Manager, National Engagement Strategy and 
Policy Division, Federal Aviation 
Administration. 
[FR Doc. 2026–02231 Filed 2–3–26; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 4910–13–P 
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION 
[Docket No. DOT–OST–2026–0430] 
Office of the Assistant Secretary for 
Research and Technology; Request for 
Information—Research To Support 
Establishing a National Strategy for 
Transportation Digital Infrastructure 
AGENCY: Department of Transportation 
(DOT). 
ACTION: Request for information (RFI). 
SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of 
Transportation (U.S. DOT), Office of the 
Assistant Secretary for Research and 
Technology (OST–R), is seeking 
information from the public, industry, 
technology developers, State, local, and 
tribal transportation agencies, 
researchers, and other stakeholders. The 
focus of this request is to seek public 
and stakeholder input on the research 
and development activities needed to 
modernize the nation’s transportation 
system through the application of digital 
infrastructure at scale. Responses will 
inform a coordinated national strategy 
for the development and deployment of 
Transportation Digital Infrastructure 
(TDI). This strategy will serve as the 
framework for the next generation of the 
transportation system across all modes 
(highway, rail, air, maritime, transit, 
pipeline) supporting multimodal 
operations, safety, asset management, 
and the accelerated deployment of new 
and emerging technologies. 
DATES: Written submissions must be 
received by March 6, 2026. 
Submission Instructions: Responses 
should be submitted electronically as a 
Microsoft Word document, preferably 
no greater than 10 MB in file size. 
Recommended format for responses 
includes Times New Roman 12-point 
font and 1 inch page margins. Responses 
should be emailed to TDI-Strategy-RFI@
dot.gov (with the Subject Line of ‘‘TDI 
Strategy RFI Response <Institution 
Name>’’. No Confidential Business 
Information or Sensitive Security 
Information should be submitted in 
response to this RFI. Respondents are 
not required to answer every question. 
Submissions may be as brief or detailed 
as appropriate and should focus on 
areas where the respondent has relevant 
experience. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT : For 
questions about this RFI, please email 
TDI-Strategy-RFI@dot.gov. You may also 
contact Alasdair Cain, Director of 
Research, Development and Technology 
Coordination, Office of the Assistant 
Secretary for Research and Technology 
(202–366–0934) or by email at 
alasdair.cain@dot.gov. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This RFI 
seeks information that will assist OST– 
R in carrying out its transportation 
research and development 
responsibilities under 49 U.S.C. Chapter 
65, ‘‘Research Planning’’. This RFI is 
neither a request for proposals nor a 
notice of funding opportunity. 
Respondents are requested to supply 
the following information at a minimum 
in their written responses: 
A. Name of the responding entity 
(‘‘respondent’’). 
B. Respondent’s Contact information, 
including that individual’s title, name, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:18 Feb 03, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00046 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\04FEN1.SGM 04FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES
5151 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 23 / Wednesday, February 4, 2026 / Notices 
address, telephone number and email 
address. 
C. The respondent’s input to U.S. 
DOT transportation digital 
infrastructure research and planning 
needs relating to any or all of the 
questions below. 
Specific Information Required 
This RFI seeks feedback from the 
public, industry, technology developers, 
State, local and tribal transportation 
agencies, researchers, and other 
stakeholders on the research, 
development and deployment activities 
necessary to develop a comprehensive, 
national Transportation Digital 
Infrastructure (TDI) strategy. This 
includes identifying opportunities for 
improved data exchange and 
interoperability, cyber-resilience, asset 
management, and technology 
integration across varied U.S. 
geographies and operational 
environments. The insights gained 
through this RFI will inform a research 
agenda that supports the development, 
deployment, and scaling of digital 
infrastructure nationwide. The 
following presents key questions in four 
critical topic areas. 
A. Research, Development and 
Deployment 
1. How should Transportation Digital 
Infrastructure be defined? 
2. What TDI research needs should be 
prioritized? 
3. What travel corridors or regions 
should be prioritized for TDI 
development and deployment? 
4. Are there existing testbeds, pilots or 
demonstrations that could be leveraged? 
5. What TDI use cases or applications 
should be prioritized? 
6. How should U.S. DOT leverage or 
expand existing programs to advance 
TDI development and deployment? 
B. System Architecture, Interoperability 
and Standards 
1. What are the key elements of a TDI 
system architecture that can 
accommodate the operation of all 
transportation modes including surface, 
maritime, and aviation? 
2. How can TDI be integrated into 
infrastructure planning, construction 
and asset management processes? 
3. What methods should be used for 
federating data sharing across States and 
regions? 
4. What existing architecture 
frameworks or standards could be used 
to underpin TDI development and 
deployment (e.g., U.S. DOT’s 
Architecture Reference for Cooperative 
and Intelligent Transportation (ARC– 
IT))? 
5. What are the necessary latency and 
throughput requirements for safety- 
critical applications (e.g., Vehicle-to- 
Everything (V2X) communications, 
Automated Driving Systems (ADS), and 
Cooperative Driving Automation 
(CDA))? 
6. What are the highest-priority 
research gaps and challenges to 
advancing interoperability across modes 
and sectors? 
C. Artificial Intelligence and 
Automation 
1. How should AI applications be 
leveraged to support TDI development 
and deployment? 
2. How should TDI be best used to 
accelerate the development and 
deployment of autonomous vehicles, 
drones and other transformative 
technologies? 
3. What are the highest-value, near- 
time AI and automation applications 
enabled by comprehensive sensing and 
data sharing? 
4. How can AI applications be safely 
deployed to accommodate data 
exchange and data use across 
jurisdictional boundaries? 
D. Data Governance, Privacy, and 
Cybersecurity 
1. What data governance principles, 
access controls, and cybersecurity 
measures are needed to ensure trust, 
accountability, and privacy? 
2. What models or frameworks should 
be used to ensure secure data exchange 
(e.g., data trusts, federated data sharing, 
and public Application Programming 
Interfaces (APIs))? 
3. What are the most significant threat 
vectors introduced by extensive 
transportation system sensing and data 
integration, beyond traditional 
Information Technology (IT) and 
Operational Technology (OT) threats? 
4. How should U.S. DOT apply the 
National Institute of Standards and 
Technology (NIST) Cybersecurity 
Framework (CSF) to TDI development 
and deployment? 
5. How should TDI be aligned with 
federal data strategies and privacy 
frameworks? 
6. How can legacy and proprietary 
data sources be effectively incorporated 
into a new national data exchange 
environment? 
Confidential Business Information 
Do not submit information disclosure 
of which is restricted by statute, such as 
trade secrets and commercial or 
financial information (hereinafter 
referred to as Confidential Business 
Information ‘‘CBI’’) in response to this 
RFI. Responses submitted to OST–R 
cannot be claimed as CBI. Responses 
received by OST–R will waive any CBI 
claims for the information submitted. 
Issued in Washington, DC, on January 30, 
2026. 
Michael A. Halem, 
Acting Assistant Secretary for Research and 
Technology. 
[FR Doc. 2026–02236 Filed 2–3–26; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 4910–9X–P 
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY 
Office of Foreign Assets Control 
Notice of OFAC Sanctions Action 
AGENCY: Office of Foreign Assets 
Control, Treasury. 
ACTION: Notice. 
SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of the 
Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets 
Control (OFAC) is publishing the names 
of one or more persons that have been 
placed on OFAC’s Specially Designated 
Nationals and Blocked Persons List 
(SDN List) based on OFAC’s 
determination that one or more 
applicable legal criteria were satisfied. 
All property and interests in property 
subject to U.S. jurisdiction of these 
persons are blocked, and U.S. persons 
are generally prohibited from engaging 
in transactions with them. 
DATES: This action was issued on 
January 30, 2026. See SUPPLEMENTARY 
INFORMATION for relevant dates. 
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT : 
OFAC: Associate Director for Global 
Targeting, 202–622–2420; Assistant 
Director for Sanctions Compliance, 202– 
622–2490 or https://ofac.treasury.gov/ 
contact-ofac. 
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 
Electronic Availability 
The SDN List and additional 
information concerning OFAC sanctions 
programs are available on OFAC’s 
website: https://ofac.treasury.gov. 
Notice of OFAC Action 
On January 30, 2026, OFAC 
determined that the property and 
interests in property subject to U.S. 
jurisdiction of the following persons are 
blocked under the relevant sanctions 
authorities listed below. 
Entities 
1. ZEDCEX EXCHANGE LTD, 71–75 
Shelton Street, London WC2H 9JQ, 
United Kingdom; website 
www.zedcex.com; Additional Sanctions 
Information—Subject to Secondary 
Sanctions; Secondary sanctions risk: 
section 1(b) of Executive Order 13224, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:18 Feb 03, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00047 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\04FEN1.SGM 04FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES