5128 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 23 / Wednesday, February 4, 2026 / Notices 
34 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(A)(ii). 
35 17 CFR 240.19b–4(f)(2). 
36 17 CFR 200.30–3(a)(12). 
1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). 
2 17 CFR 240.19b–4. 
3 Terms not defined herein are defined in the GSD 
Rules, available at www.dtcc.com/legal/rules-and- 
procedures. 
4 GSD also clears and settles certain transactions 
on securities issued or guaranteed by U.S. 
government agencies and government sponsored 
enterprises. 
5 See GSD Margin Component Schedule, supra 
note 3. FICC’s market risk management strategy is 
designed to comply with Rule 17ad–22(e)(4) under 
the Act, where these risks are referred to as ‘‘credit 
risks.’’ 17 CFR 240.17ad–22(e)(4). 
competition. These non-substantive 
amendments will bring greater clarity to 
the Fee Schedule. 
C. Self-Regulatory Organization’s 
Statement on Comments on the 
Proposed Rule Change Received From 
Members, Participants, or Others 
No written comments were either 
solicited or received. 
III. Date of Effectiveness of the 
Proposed Rule Change and Timing for 
Commission Action Effectiveness 
The foregoing rule change has become 
effective pursuant to Section 
19(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Exchange Act
34 
and Rule 19b–4(f)(2) thereunder,35 
because it establishes or changes a due, 
or fee. 
At any time within 60 days of the 
filing of the proposed rule change, the 
Commission summarily may 
temporarily suspend the rule change if 
it appears to the Commission that the 
action is necessary or appropriate in the 
public interest, for the protection of 
investors, or would otherwise further 
the purposes of the Act. If the 
Commission takes such action, the 
Commission shall institute proceedings 
to determine whether the proposed rule 
should be approved or disapproved. 
IV. Solicitation of Comments 
Interested persons are invited to 
submit written data, views, and 
arguments concerning the foregoing, 
including whether the proposed rule 
change is consistent with the Act. 
Comments may be submitted by any of 
the following methods: 
Electronic Comments 
• Use the Commission’s internet 
comment form (http://www.sec.gov/ 
rules/sro.shtml); or 
• Send an email to rule-comments@
sec.gov. Please include File Number SR– 
BOX–2026–03 on the subject line. 
Paper Comments 
• Send paper comments in triplicate 
to Secretary, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 100 F Street NE, 
Washington, DC 20549–1090. 
All submissions should refer to file 
number SR–BOX–2026–03. This file 
number should be included on the 
subject line if email is used. To help the 
Commission process and review your 
comments more efficiently, please use 
only one method. The Commission will 
post all comments on the Commission’s 
internet website (https://www.sec.gov/ 
rules/sro.shtml). Copies of the filing will 
be available for inspection and copying 
at the principal office of the Exchange. 
Do not include personal identifiable 
information in submissions; you should 
submit only information that you wish 
to make available publicly. We may 
redact in part or withhold entirely from 
publication submitted material that is 
obscene or subject to copyright 
protection. All submissions should refer 
to file number SR–BOX–2026–03 and 
should be submitted on or before 
February 25, 2026. 
For the Commission, by the Division of 
Trading and Markets, pursuant to delegated 
authority.36 
Sherry R. Haywood, 
Assistant Secretary. 
[FR Doc. 2026–02224 Filed 2–3–26; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 8011–01–P 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION 
[Release No. 34–104755; File No. SR–FICC– 
2026–003] 
Self-Regulatory Organizations; Fixed 
Income Clearing Corporation; Notice of 
Filing of Proposed Rule Change To 
Remove the Activity Limit From the 
GSD Rules 
January 30, 2026. 
Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(‘‘Act’’)
1 and Rule 19b–4 thereunder,2 
notice is hereby given that on January 
29, 2026, Fixed Income Clearing 
Corporation (‘‘FICC’’) filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
(‘‘Commission’’) the proposed rule 
change as described in Items I, II and III 
below, which Items have been prepared 
by the clearing agency. The Commission 
is publishing this notice to solicit 
comments on the proposed rule change 
from interested persons. 
I. Clearing Agency’s Statement of the 
Terms of Substance of the Proposed 
Rule Change 
The proposed rule change consists of 
modifications to FICC’s Government 
Securities Division (‘‘GSD’’) Rulebook 
(‘‘GSD Rules’’)
3 in order to enhance the 
risk management of indirect participants 
by (i) removing the activity limit 
currently applied to Sponsoring 
Members and, in lieu thereof, (ii) 
modifying the application of the ‘‘higher 
of’’ calculation methodology that 
currently applies the higher of start-of- 
day (‘‘SOD’’) VaR Charge and intraday 
VaR Charge to all Sponsoring Member 
Omnibus Accounts to apply to only 
those Sponsored Members and/or 
Segregated Indirect Participants whose 
activity level exceeds a specified 
liquidity threshold. 
II. Clearing Agency’s Statement of the 
Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the 
Proposed Rule Change 
In its filing with the Commission, the 
clearing agency included statements 
concerning the purpose of and basis for 
the proposed rule change and discussed 
any comments it received on the 
proposed rule change. The text of these 
statements may be examined at the 
places specified in Item IV below. The 
clearing agency has prepared 
summaries, set forth in sections A, B, 
and C below, of the most significant 
aspects of such statements. 
(A) Clearing Agency’s Statement of the 
Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the 
Proposed Rule Change 
1. Purpose 
FICC is proposing to enhance the risk 
management of indirect participants by 
removing the activity limit currently 
applied to Sponsoring Members and, in 
lieu thereof, modifying the application 
of the ‘‘higher of’’ calculation 
methodology that currently applies the 
higher of SOD VaR Charge and intraday 
VaR Charge to all Sponsoring Member 
Omnibus Accounts, to apply to only 
those Sponsored Members and/or 
Segregated Indirect Participants whose 
activity level exceeds a specified 
liquidity threshold. 
Background 
FICC, through GSD, serves as a central 
counterparty and provider of clearance 
and settlement services for transactions 
in U.S. government securities, as well as 
repurchase and reverse repurchase 
transactions involving U.S. government 
securities.
4 As part of its market risk 
management strategy, FICC manages its 
credit exposure to Members by 
determining the appropriate Required 
Fund Deposit to the Clearing Fund and 
monitoring its sufficiency, as provided 
for in the GSD Rules.
5 At GSD, FICC 
calculates the Required Fund Deposit 
amount for each Member twice a day. 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:18 Feb 03, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\04FEN1.SGM 04FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES
5129 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 23 / Wednesday, February 4, 2026 / Notices 
6 The GSD Rules identify when FICC may cease 
to act for a Member and the types of actions FICC 
may take. For example, FICC may suspend a firm’s 
membership with FICC or prohibit or limit a 
Member’s access to FICC’s services in the event that 
Member defaults on a financial or other obligation 
to FICC. See GSD Rule 21 (Restrictions on Access 
to Services), supra note 3. 
7 See GSD Rule 3A (Sponsoring Members and 
Sponsored Members), supra note 3. 
8 See GSD Rule 1 (Definitions) (definition of 
‘‘Sponsored Member Trades’’), supra note 3. 
9 See GSD Rule 1 (definition of ‘‘Agent Clearing 
Transactions’’), supra note 3. 
10 See GSD Rule 2B (Accounts), supra note 3. 
11 See GSD Rule 4 (Clearing Fund and Loss 
Allocation) and GSD Margin Component Schedule, 
supra note 3. FICC’s market risk management 
strategy is designed to comply with Rule 17ad– 
22(e)(4) under the Act, where these risks are 
referred to as ‘‘credit risks.’’ 17 CFR 240.17ad– 
22(e)(4). 
12 Supra note 3. 
13 These margin components and the relevant 
defined terms are located in the GSD Margin 
Component Schedule, supra note 3. 
14 See GSD Margin Component Guide (definition 
of ‘‘VaR Charge’’), supra note 3. 
15 See GSD Rule 3 (Ongoing Membership 
Requirements), supra note 3. 
16 See Rule 3A, Section 10 and Rule 8 (Agent 
Clearing Service), Section 7, supra note 3. 
17 See GSD Rule 1 (definition of ‘‘Netting Member 
Capital’’), supra note 3. 
18 See GSD Rule 3A, Section 2(h), supra note 3. 
The calculation is based upon each 
Member’s unsettled and pending 
transactions. 
The objective of a Member’s Required 
Fund Deposit is to mitigate potential 
losses to FICC associated with 
liquidating a Member’s portfolio in the 
event FICC ceases to act for that Member 
(hereinafter referred to as a ‘‘default’’).
6 
The aggregate amount of all Members’ 
Required Fund Deposit constitutes the 
Clearing Fund. FICC would access the 
Clearing Fund should a defaulting 
Member’s own Required Fund Deposit 
be insufficient to satisfy losses to FICC 
caused by the liquidation of that 
Member’s portfolio. 
Each Member is also responsible for 
the margin requirements arising from 
the activity of the Member’s indirect 
participant customers submitted to FICC 
via the Sponsoring Member/Sponsored 
Member service (‘‘Sponsored Service’’) 
and/or the Agent Clearing Service. 
FICC’s Sponsored Service permits 
Members that are approved to be 
Sponsoring Members, to sponsor certain 
institutional firms, referred to as 
‘‘Sponsored Members,’’ into GSD 
membership.
7 FICC establishes and 
maintains a ‘‘Sponsoring Member 
Omnibus Account’’ on its books in 
which it records the transactions of the 
Sponsoring Member’s Sponsored 
Members (‘‘Sponsored Member 
Trades’’).
8 Similarly, FICC’s Agent 
Clearing Service permits Members that 
are approved to be Agent Clearing 
Members to submit activities of certain 
institutional firms, referred to as 
‘‘Executing Firm Customers,’’ into FICC 
for clearing and settlement. FICC 
establishes and maintains an ‘‘Agent 
Clearing Member Omnibus Account’’ on 
its books in which it records the 
transactions of the Agent Clearing 
Member’s Executing Firm Customers 
(‘‘Agent Clearing Transactions’’).
9 
Both the Sponsoring Members and the 
Agent Clearing Members also have the 
option of segregating Sponsored 
Member Trades of a Sponsored Member 
and Agent Clearing Transactions of an 
Executing Firm Customer, as applicable, 
in separate accounts (i.e., Segregated 
Indirect Participant Accounts),
10 each 
such Sponsored Member and Executing 
Firm Customer being referred to as a 
‘‘Segregated Indirect Participant.’’ FICC 
manages its credit exposure to 
Segregated Indirect Participants by 
determining the appropriate Segregated 
Customer Margin Requirement and 
monitoring its sufficiency, as provided 
for in the GSD Rules.
11 FICC calculates 
the Segregated Customer Margin 
Requirement amount for each Member 
twice a day. The calculation is based 
upon the unsettled and pending 
transactions in each Member’s (i) 
Sponsoring Member Omnibus Accounts 
designated as Segregated Indirect 
Participants Accounts and (ii) Agent 
Clearing Member Omnibus Accounts 
designated as Segregated Indirect 
Participants Accounts. 
Pursuant to the GSD Rules, each 
Member’s Required Fund Deposit 
amount and/or Segregated Customer 
Margin Requirement amount, to the 
extent applicable, consist of a number of 
components, each of which is calculated 
to address specific risks faced by FICC, 
as identified within the GSD Rules.
12 
These components include the VaR 
Charge, Blackout Period Exposure 
Adjustment, Backtesting Charge, 
Holiday Charge, Margin Liquidity 
Adjustment Charge, Excess Capital 
Premium, Intraday Supplemental Fund 
Deposit, special charge, Portfolio 
Differential Charge, Volatility Event 
Charge, and Intraday Mark-to-Market 
Charge.
13 The VaR Charge 14 generally 
comprises the largest portion of a 
Member’s Required Fund Deposit 
amount/Segregated Customer Margin 
Requirement amount. 
The Required Fund Deposit amount 
and the Segregated Customer Margin 
Requirement amount are each designed 
to be directly correlated with the 
amount of risk created by a Member’s/ 
Segregated Indirect Participant’s trade 
activity and is calculated based on the 
Member’s/Segregated Indirect 
Participant’s outstanding positions as 
well as its intraday trading and 
settlement activity. FICC has the ability 
to require additional financial resources 
or other adequate assurances (such as a 
limitation on their activity), as a risk 
mitigant from those Members that may 
pose a risk to FICC or its 
memberships.
15 
FICC mitigates the market risk 
associated with Sponsored Service and 
Agent Clearing Service through the 
twice-daily margin collection from the 
Sponsoring Members and Agent 
Clearing Members.
16 In addition, under 
the GSD Rules, FICC currently has the 
ability to limit activities and assess a 
higher Clearing Fund deposit, as further 
described below, both of which are 
specifically designed to manage risk 
exposures from the Sponsored Service. 
Similar to the Sponsored Service, the 
Agent Clearing Service also enables 
participation by firms that rely on the 
services provided by Members in order 
to have their activity cleared and settled 
through FICC’s facilities. Accordingly, 
FICC is looking to align the risk 
management and monitoring process for 
the Agent Clearing Service and the 
Sponsored Service, particularly with 
respect to the management of risk 
exposures from Sponsored Members 
and Segregated Indirect Participants, 
with the proposed changes further 
described below. 
1. Removal of Activity Limit 
Currently, FICC can manage its risk 
exposures from the Sponsored Service 
by limiting the activities that a 
Sponsoring Member can submit to FICC. 
Specifically, under Section 2(h) of GSD 
Rule 3A, if the sum of the VaR Charges 
of a Sponsoring Member’s Sponsoring 
Member Omnibus Account(s) and its 
Dealer Accounts (‘‘Aggregate VaR 
Charges’’) exceeds its Netting Member 
Capital,
17 the Sponsoring Member shall 
not be permitted to submit activity into 
its Sponsoring Member Omnibus 
Account(s), unless otherwise 
determined by FICC in order to promote 
orderly settlement.
18 
FICC is proposing to delete this 
restriction on activity submission from 
GSD Rule 3A, and, in lieu thereof, 
modify the application of the ‘‘higher 
of’’ calculation methodology so that it 
would apply to only those Sponsored 
Members and Segregated Indirect 
Participants whose activity level 
exceeds a specified liquidity threshold. 
The proposed removal of activity limit 
would also facilitate access to FICC’s 
clearance and settlement services in 
accordance with the requirements of 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:18 Feb 03, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\04FEN1.SGM 04FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES
5130 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 23 / Wednesday, February 4, 2026 / Notices 
19 17 CFR 240.17ad–22(e)(18)(iv)(C). 
20 Section 4(e) of the GSD Margin Component 
Schedule currently states that FICC applies the 
higher of the ‘‘Required Fund Deposit’’ calculation 
as of the current Business Day and intraday on the 
current Business Day for the Sponsoring Member 
Omnibus Account, even though in practice FICC 
calculates the Unadjusted GSD Margin Portfolio 
Amount applicable to a Sponsoring Member 
Omnibus Account based on the higher of the VaR 
Charge calculation as of the beginning of the current 
Business Day and intraday on the current Business 
Day. In reviewing the GSD Rules in connection with 
this present filing, FICC believes this reference to 
‘‘Require Fund Deposit’’ in Section 4(e) of the GSD 
Margin Component Schedule is incorrect and 
should be changed to ‘‘VaR Charge’’ to accurately 
reflect the current practice. 
21 FICC calculates VaR Charge twice daily based 
on each Member’s noon position and end-of-day 
position. Typically, the VaR Charge calculated 
based on the noon slice would be collected intraday 
at 2:45 p.m. (i.e., intraday VaR Charge), while the 
VaR Charge calculated based on the end-of-day 
position would be collected at start-of-day at 9:30 
a.m. the next business day (i.e., SOD VaR Charge). 
With the application of the ‘‘higher of’’ 
methodology, FICC would compare the VaR Charge 
calculated based on the noon slice against the VaR 
Charge calculated based on the prior business day’s 
end-of-day positions and apply the higher of the 
two amounts as the intraday VaR Charge. For 
example, if the VaR Charge calculated based on the 
noon slice is lower than the VaR Charge calculated 
based on the prior business day’s end-of-day 
position, then FICC would assess the VaR Charge 
calculated based on the prior business day’s end- 
of-day position as the intraday VaR Charge. In 
contrast, if the VaR Charge calculated based on the 
noon slice is higher than the VaR Charge calculated 
based on the prior business day’s end-of-day 
position, then FICC would assess the VaR Charge 
calculated based on the noon slice as the intraday 
VaR Charge. 
22 As proposed, FICC would not apply the ‘‘higher 
of’’ calculation methodology to Agent Clearing 
Member Omnibus Accounts that are not designated 
as segregated. This is because, unlike Sponsored 
Members and Segregated Indirect Participants 
whose margin requirements are calculated on a 
gross basis, margin requirements for Agent Clearing 
Member Omnibus Accounts that are not designated 
as segregated are calculated on a net basis across all 
Executing Firm Customers whose transactions are 
recorded within the same account. 
23 FICC believes the proposed 25 Business Days 
application period of the ‘‘higher of’’ calculation 
methodology would provide FICC higher margin 
coverage within a given calendar month in order to 
mitigate increases in risk exposure levels arising 
from Members’ indirect participant activities, 
particularly those spanning over month-end period, 
which tend to be when FICC risk management has 
observed increases in those activities. 
Rule 17ad–22(e)(18)(iv)(C) under the 
Act.19 
2. Modify Application of the ‘‘Higher 
Of’’ Calculation Methodology 
In addition to the activity limit 
described above, FICC can also manage 
its risk exposures from the Sponsored 
Service by assessing a higher Clearing 
Fund deposit on the Sponsoring 
Members. FICC currently applies the 
higher of the VaR Charge
20 calculation 
as of the beginning of the current 
Business Day and intraday on the 
current Business Day as the intraday 
VaR Charge to a Sponsoring Member’s 
Sponsoring Member Omnibus Account 
pursuant to Section 4(e) of the GSD 
Margin Component Schedule.
21 FICC 
believes this calculation procedure, 
currently applicable only to Sponsoring 
Member Omnibus Accounts, should 
also apply to Sponsoring Member 
Omnibus Accounts designated as 
Segregated Indirect Participants 
Accounts as well as Agent Clearing 
Member Omnibus Accounts designated 
as Segregated Indirect Participants 
Accounts, as both of these Account 
types would also be used exclusively to 
record transactions submitted to FICC 
on behalf of entities other than a 
Member (i.e., Sponsored Members and 
Segregated Indirect Participants) and 
thus should be monitored and risk 
managed in a similar manner.
22 
Accordingly, in addition to Sponsored 
Members that are currently subject to 
the ‘‘higher of’’ calculation 
methodology, FICC is proposing to 
expand the application of the ‘‘higher 
of’’ calculation methodology to include 
Segregated Indirect Participants. 
However, instead of applying the 
‘‘higher of’’ calculation to these Account 
types at all times, FICC would modify 
the application of this methodology as 
described below. 
In order to monitor and mitigate risk 
exposures from Sponsored Members 
and Segregated Indirect Participants 
whose activity level exceeds a specified 
liquidity threshold, FICC is proposing 
that, with respect to each Sponsored 
Member and/or Segregated Indirect 
Participant, FICC would compare the 
total liquidity needs arising from the 
Sponsored Member’s/Segregated 
Indirect Participant’s activities across all 
Accounts of its Sponsoring Members/ 
Agent Clearing Members against FICC’s 
daily liquidity need. If on any Business 
Day the aggregate liquidity needs of the 
Sponsored Member/Segregated Indirect 
Participant across all Accounts exceed 
FICC’s daily liquidity need, then FICC 
would apply the ‘‘higher of’’ calculation 
methodology to the Sponsored Member/ 
Segregated Indirect Participant for the 
following 25 Business Days.
23 
Specifically, the ‘‘higher of’’ VaR Charge 
would be assessed for each applicable 
Sponsored Member/Segregated Indirect 
Participant via the relevant Sponsoring 
Member Omnibus Account/Agent 
Clearing Member Omnibus Account 
based on the SOD and intraday VaR 
Charges calculated for the Sponsored 
Member/Segregated Indirect Participant. 
For example, if Sponsored Member X 
submits transactions through four 
different Sponsoring Members, 
generating Receive Obligations and 
Funds-Only Settlement Amounts that 
total $100 billion on Day 1, and the 
FICC’s daily liquidity need on Day 1 is 
$80 billion, then FICC would impose a 
‘‘higher of’’ calculation methodology on 
Sponsored Member X for the next 25 
Business Days, (i.e., Day 2 to Day 27), 
by assessing Sponsored Member X the 
higher of its SOD VaR Charge and 
intraday VaR Charge for both margin 
cycles. This means that, if Sponsored 
Member X’s SOD VaR Charge was $300 
million and its intraday VaR Charge was 
$150 million on Day 2, Sponsored 
Member X would be assessed a VaR 
Charge of $300 million for both the SOD 
and the intraday margin cycles on Day 
2. 
Proposed GSD Rule Changes 
To implement the proposed changes 
described above, FICC proposes to make 
the following amendments to the GSD 
Rules. 
FICC proposes to revise GSD Rule 1 
by adding new definitions for 
‘‘Affiliated Family’’ and ‘‘Daily 
Liquidity Need.’’ 
‘‘Affiliated Family’’ would be defined 
to mean a group of Members, excluding 
from the group any Member that is a 
securities clearinghouse, depository, 
exchange or other market infrastructure, 
in which each Member in the group is 
an Affiliate of at least one other Member 
in the group. 
‘‘Daily Liquidity Need’’ would be 
defined to mean on any Business Day, 
the largest payment obligation of FICC 
as a central counterparty, as calculated 
and determined by FICC, for all 
projected same day, intraday and 
multiday settlement activity (where 
appropriate), assuming the default on 
that day of a Netting Member or, for an 
Affiliated Family, the largest payment 
obligation that FICC would have in the 
event of the simultaneous default of all 
Members of that Affiliated Family. 
In addition, FICC would modify the 
GSD Rules by deleting Section 2(h) of 
GSD Rule 3A, the existing activity limit 
provision. Due to the deletion of GSD 
Rule 3A, Section 2(h), subsection 2(i) 
would be renumbered 2(h) and 
subsection 2(j) would be renumbered 
2(i). 
In lieu thereof, FICC would modify 
the GSD Rules by revising Section 4 of 
the GSD Margin Component Schedule to 
reflect the modifications to the 
application of the ‘‘higher of’’ 
calculation methodology. Specifically, 
FICC is proposing to delete the existing 
language in Section 4(e) of the GSD 
Margin Components Schedule and 
adding language that would provide that 
for each Sponsored Member and/or 
Segregated Indirect Participant, FICC 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:18 Feb 03, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\04FEN1.SGM 04FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES
5131 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 23 / Wednesday, February 4, 2026 / Notices 
24 See GSD Rule 1 (definition of ‘‘Receive 
Obligation’’), supra note 3. 
25 See GSD Rule 1 (definition of ‘‘Funds-Only 
Settlement Amounts’’), supra note 3. 
26 Due to data limitation, the impact study did not 
include Funds-Only Settlement Amounts from 
April 1, 2024 to March 23, 2025. 
27 15 U.S.C. 78d–2(b)(3)(F). 
28 17 CFR 240.17ad–22(e)(4), (e)(6)(i), and (e)(19). 
29 15 U.S.C. 78d–2(b)(3)(F). 
30 Id. 
shall compare the sum of Receive 
Obligations 24 and Funds-Only 
Settlement Amounts 25 recorded for the 
Sponsored Member and/or Segregated 
Indirect Participant across all Accounts 
against FICC’s Daily Liquidity Need. If 
on any Business Day the aggregate sum 
of Receive Obligations and Funds-Only 
Settlement Amounts of the Sponsored 
Member and/or Segregated Indirect 
Participant across all Accounts exceeds 
FICC’s Daily Liquidity Need, for 
purposes of calculating the Unadjusted 
GSD Margin Portfolio Amount, FICC 
shall apply the higher of the VaR Charge 
calculation as of the beginning of the 
day and intraday as the intraday VaR 
Charge to the Sponsored Member and/ 
or Segregated Indirect Participant for the 
following 25 Business Days. 
In addition, the title of Section 4 of 
the GSD Margin Component Schedule 
would be changed from ‘‘Increased 
Required Fund Deposits’’ to ‘‘Increased 
Required Fund Deposits/Segregated 
Customer Margin Requirements.’’ 
Impact Study 
FICC performed an impact study for 
the period April 1, 2024 to October 31, 
2025 (‘‘Impact Study Period’’). The 
impact study included 696 out of 2,978 
Sponsored Members because they had 
either Receive Obligations and/or 
Funds-Only Settlement Amounts.
26 If 
the proposed rule changes had been in 
place during the Impact Study Period, 
out of 696 Sponsored Members, 31 
Sponsored Members (or approximately 
4.5%) would not be impacted and 665 
Sponsored Members (or approximately 
95.5%) would be positively impacted. 
Specifically, out of the 31 Sponsored 
Members that would not be impacted, 
five Sponsored Members were already 
subject to the ‘‘higher of’’ calculation 
methodology under the current GSD 
Rules and would remain subject to the 
‘‘higher of’’ calculation methodology 
under the proposal. For the other 26 
Sponsored Members, their VaR Charges 
calculated based on the noon slice are 
higher than their VaR Charges 
calculated based on the prior business 
day end-of-day positions. Therefore, 
these 26 Sponsored Members were 
already being assessed the VaR Charge 
calculated based on their noon slice as 
their intraday VaR Charges and would 
continue to be assessed that way under 
the proposal. For the 665 Sponsored 
Members that would be positively 
impacted, they would have a reduction 
in their VaR Charges as a result of 
proposed modifications to the 
application of the ‘‘higher of’’ 
calculation methodology. 
On average, the five Sponsored 
Members would be subject to the 
‘‘higher of’’ calculation methodology for 
approximately 159 out of the 398 
Business Days (or approximately 40%) 
during the Impact Study Period, with 
one Sponsored Member being subject to 
the ‘‘higher of’’ calculation methodology 
for 381 days out of the 398-day Impact 
Study Period (or approximately 96%). 
The average daily increase in VaR 
Charge in dollars for the five Sponsored 
Members would be approximately 
$144.6 million (or approximately 19% 
of the average daily VaR Charge that 
would otherwise be assessed on the five 
Sponsored Members). 
The five largest daily increases in VaR 
Charge in dollars for the five Sponsored 
Members would be approximately 
$826.1 million (or approximately 
51.7%), $697.1 million (or 
approximately 47.3%), $692.5 million 
(or approximately 41.8%), $689.6 
million (or approximately 46.9%), and 
$682.6 million (or approximately 
40.7%). 
The five largest daily increases in VaR 
Charge for the five Sponsored Members 
as percentages of the relevant Sponsored 
Member’s daily VaR Charge that would 
otherwise be assessed on the Sponsored 
Members would be approximately 
59.7% (or $312.8 million), 55.8% (or 
$361.2 million), 52.8% (or $209.9 
million), 52.6% (or $208.3 million), and 
52.5% (or $203.8 million). 
As proposed, FICC would no longer 
automatically apply the ‘‘higher of’’ 
calculation methodology to a 
Sponsoring Member’s Sponsoring 
Member Omnibus Account. 
Accordingly, the 665 Sponsored 
Members that would have been assessed 
a higher VaR Charge under the current 
GSD Rules would each have, on average, 
a daily reduction in their VaR Charges 
of approximately $20.2 million (or 
approximately 32% of the average daily 
VaR Charge that would otherwise be 
assessed on the Sponsored Member). 
Implementation Timeframe 
FICC would implement the proposed 
rule change by no later than 60 Business 
Days after the approval of the proposed 
rule change by the Commission. FICC 
would announce the effective date of 
the proposed changes by an Important 
Notice posted to its website. 
2. Statutory Basis 
FICC believes the proposed rule 
change is consistent with the 
requirements of the Act and the rules 
and regulations thereunder applicable to 
a registered clearing agency. In 
particular, FICC believes the proposed 
rule change is consistent with Section 
17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act,
27 and Rules 
17ad–22(e)(4), (e)(6)(i), and (e)(19) each 
promulgated under the Act,
28 for the 
reasons described below. 
Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act 
requires that the GSD Rules be designed 
to, among other things, assure the 
safeguarding of securities and funds 
which are in the custody or control of 
the clearing agency or for which it is 
responsible and be designed to promote 
the prompt and accurate clearance and 
settlement of securities transactions.
29 
FICC believes the proposed changes to 
enhance the risk management of 
indirect participants are designed to 
assure the safeguarding of securities and 
funds which are in its custody or 
control or for which it is responsible 
because these changes are designed to 
mitigate risks to FICC arising out of a 
Member’s indirect participant activities. 
Specifically, the proposed changes 
would enable FICC to assess a higher 
margin on those Sponsored Members 
and Segregated Indirect Participants 
whose activity level exceeds a specified 
liquidity threshold. Doing so would 
enable FICC to more accurately assess 
the margin required to cover risks 
arising from the activities of indirect 
participants such that, in the event of a 
Member default, FICC would be able to 
mitigate potential losses associated with 
liquidating the defaulting Member’s 
portfolio so that FICC’s operations 
would not be disrupted, and non- 
defaulting Members would not be 
exposed to losses they cannot anticipate 
or control. In this way, these proposed 
changes are designed to enhance FICC’s 
risk management and its ability to 
assure the safe return of funds and 
securities by ensuring that the margin 
requirements take due and appropriate 
account of the risk arising from indirect 
participants’ activities and thus 
reducing the potential risk to FICC 
arising from indirect participant 
transactions. Accordingly, these changes 
would support FICC’s compliance with 
Section 17A(b)(3)(F) by further assuring 
FICC’s safeguarding of securities and 
funds in its control and for which it is 
responsible.
30 
The proposed rule changes to enhance 
the risk management of indirect 
participants have also been designed to 
be consistent with Rules 17ad–22(e)(4), 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:18 Feb 03, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\04FEN1.SGM 04FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES
5132 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 23 / Wednesday, February 4, 2026 / Notices 
31 17 CFR 240.17ad–22(e)(4), (e)(6)(i), and (e)(19). 
32 17 CFR 240.17ad–22(e)(4). 
33 17 CFR 240.17ad–22(e)(6)(i). 
34 Id. 
35 17 CFR 240.17ad–22(e)(19). 
36 Id. 
37 15 U.S.C. 78d–2(b)(3)(I). 
38 15 U.S.C. 78d–2(b)(3)(F). 
39 Id. 
40 17 CFR 240.17ad–22(e)(4), (e)(6)(i), (e)(19). 
(e)(6)(i), and (e)(19) under the Act.31 
Rule 17ad–22(e)(4) requires FICC to 
establish, implement, maintain and 
enforce written policies and procedures 
reasonably designed to effectively 
identify, measure, monitor, and manage 
its credit exposures to participants and 
those exposures arising from its 
payment, clearing, and settlement 
processes.
32 The proposed changes to 
enhance the risk management of 
indirect participants address the 
identification, measurement, monitoring 
and management of credit exposures 
that may arise from indirect participant 
activities. Specifically, by modifying the 
application of the ‘‘higher of’’ 
calculation methodology to include 
each Sponsored Member and/or 
Segregated Indirect Participant whose 
activity level exceeds a specified 
liquidity threshold, the proposed 
changes would enable FICC to have rule 
provisions that are reasonably designed 
to effectively identify, measure, 
monitor, and manage its credit 
exposures to indirect participants and 
those exposures arising from its 
payment, clearing, and settlement 
processes, which FICC believes is 
consistent with Rule 17ad–22(e)(4). 
Rule 17ad–22(e)(6)(i) requires FICC to 
establish, implement, maintain and 
enforce written policies and procedures 
reasonably designed to cover its credit 
exposures to its participants by 
establishing a risk-based margin system 
that considers, and produces margin 
levels commensurate with, the risks and 
particular attributes of each relevant 
product, portfolio, and market.
33 FICC 
believes that the proposed changes to 
enhance the risk management of 
indirect participants as described herein 
are consistent with the requirements of 
Rule 17ad–22(e)(6)(i) cited above. The 
proposed changes to modify the 
application of the ‘‘higher of’’ 
calculation methodology to include 
each Sponsored Member and/or 
Segregated Indirect Participant whose 
activity level exceeds a specified 
liquidity threshold would help to 
ensure that margin levels are 
commensurate with the risk exposure 
presented by the indirect participant 
activities submitted to FICC by the 
Members. These proposed changes 
would help ensure that the margin that 
FICC collects from Members is sufficient 
to mitigate the credit exposure 
presented by the activities that Members 
submit to FICC on behalf of indirect 
participants. Overall, the proposed 
changes would allow FICC to more 
effectively address the risks presented 
by Members and indirect participants. 
In this way, the proposed changes 
enhance the ability of FICC to produce 
margin levels commensurate with the 
risks and particular attributes of each 
relevant product, portfolio, and market. 
As such, FICC believes that the 
proposed changes are consistent with 
the requirements of Rule 17ad– 
22(e)(6)(i) under the Act.
34 
Rule 17ad–22(e)(19) requires FICC to 
identify, monitor, and manage the 
material risks to FICC arising from 
arrangements in which firms that are 
indirect participants in FICC rely on the 
services provided by direct participants 
to access FICC’s clearance and 
settlement facilities.
35 FICC believes 
that the proposed changes to enhance 
the risk management of indirect 
participants as described herein are 
consistent with the requirements of Rule 
17ad–22(e)(19) cited above. The 
proposed changes to modify the 
application of the ‘‘higher of’’ 
calculation methodology to include 
each Sponsored Member and/or 
Segregated Indirect Participant whose 
activity level exceeds a specified 
liquidity threshold is appropriate to 
manage the potential risk to FICC 
arising from indirect participant 
transactions. These proposed changes 
would ensure that the margin FICC 
collects from Members is sufficient to 
mitigate the credit exposure presented 
by the activities that Members submit to 
FICC on behalf of indirect participants. 
Overall, the proposed changes would 
allow FICC to more effectively address 
the risks presented by indirect 
participants. In this way, the proposed 
changes enhance the ability of FICC to 
identify, monitor, and manage the 
material risks to FICC arising from 
arrangements in which firms that are 
indirect participants in FICC rely on the 
services provided by direct participants 
to access FICC’s clearance and 
settlement facilities. As such, FICC 
believes that the proposed changes are 
consistent with the requirements of Rule 
17ad–22(e)(19) under the Act.
36 
(B) Clearing Agency’s Statement on 
Burden on Competition 
FICC believes the proposed rule 
changes to enhance the risk 
management of indirect participants 
could impose a burden on competition. 
As a result of the proposed rule changes, 
participants may experience increases 
in their Required Fund Deposits and/or 
Segregated Customer Margin 
Requirements. Such increases could 
burden participants that have lower 
operating margins or higher costs of 
capital than other participants. It is not 
clear whether the burden on 
competition would necessarily be 
significant because it would depend on 
whether the affected participants were 
similarly situated in terms of business 
type and size. Regardless of whether the 
burden on competition is significant, 
FICC believes that any burden on 
competition would be necessary and 
appropriate in furtherance of the 
purposes of the Act, as permitted by 
Section 17A(b)(3)(I) of the Act.
37 
Specifically, FICC believes that the 
proposed rule changes to enhance the 
risk management of indirect participants 
would be necessary in furtherance of the 
Act, as described in this filing and 
further below. FICC believes that the 
above-described burden on competition 
that may be created by the proposed 
changes is necessary. This is because 
the GSD Rules must be designed to 
assure the safeguarding of securities and 
funds that are in FICC’s custody or 
control or for which it is responsible, 
consistent with Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of 
the Act.
38 As described above, FICC 
believes that the proposed rule changes 
to enhance the risk management of 
indirect participants would enable FICC 
to better address risk exposure arising 
from the indirect participant activities. 
As such, the proposed changes to 
enhance the risk management of 
indirect participants are designed to 
assure the safeguarding of securities and 
funds which are in the custody or 
control of FICC or for which it is 
responsible, consistent with Section 
17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act.
39 
FICC also believes these proposed 
changes to enhance the risk 
management of indirect participants are 
necessary to support FICC’s compliance 
with Rules 17ad–22(e)(4), (e)(6)(i), and 
(e)(19) under the Act,
40 which require 
FICC to establish, implement, maintain 
and enforce written policies and 
procedures reasonably designed to (x) 
effectively identify, measure, monitor, 
and manage its credit exposures to 
participants and those arising from its 
payment, clearing, and settlement 
processes, (y) cover its credit exposures 
to its participants by establishing a risk- 
based margin system that, at a 
minimum, considers, and produces 
margin levels commensurate with, the 
risks and particular attributes of each 
relevant product, portfolio, and market, 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:18 Feb 03, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\04FEN1.SGM 04FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES
5133 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 23 / Wednesday, February 4, 2026 / Notices 
41 Id. 42 15.U.S.C. 78d–2(b)(3)(I). 43 17 CFR 200.30–3(a)(12). 
and (z) identify, monitor, and manage 
the material risks to FICC arising from 
arrangements in which firms that are 
indirect participants in FICC rely on the 
services provided by direct participants 
to access FICC’s clearance and 
settlement facilities. As described 
above, FICC believes that these 
proposed changes to enhance the risk 
management of indirect participants 
would allow FICC to more effectively 
mitigate risk exposure arising out of 
indirect participant activities and 
therefore would allow FICC to 
effectively identify, measure, monitor, 
and manage its credit exposures to 
participants; better limit FICC’s credit 
exposures to participants and producing 
margin levels commensurate with the 
risks and particular attributes of each 
relevant product and portfolio; and 
more effectively address the risks 
presented by indirect participants, 
consistent with the requirements of 
Rules 17ad–22(e)(4), (e)(6)(i), and (e)(19) 
under the Act.
41 
FICC also believes that the above- 
described burden on competition that 
could be created by the proposed 
changes would be appropriate in 
furtherance of the Act because such 
changes have been appropriately 
designed to assure the safeguarding of 
securities and funds which are in the 
custody or control of FICC or for which 
it is responsible, as described in detail 
above. The proposed changes to 
enhance the risk management of 
indirect participants are specifically 
designed to cover excessive risk 
exposures posed by a Sponsored 
Member and/or a Segregated Indirect 
Participant whose activity level exceeds 
a specified liquidity threshold (i.e., 
when the total liquidity needs arise 
from the Sponsored Member’s/ 
Segregated Indirect Participant’s 
activities across all Accounts exceed 
FICC’s daily liquidity need). The 
‘‘higher of’’ calculation methodology 
that would be applied by FICC as a 
result of such proposed changes for a 
particular Sponsored Member and/or 
Segregated Indirect Participant would 
be necessary and in direct relation to the 
specific risks presented by such indirect 
participant’s activities. Any increase in 
Required Fund Deposit and/or proposed 
Segregated Customer Margin 
Requirement as a result of such 
proposed changes for a particular 
Sponsored Member and/or Segregated 
Indirect Participant would be in direct 
relation to the specific risks presented 
by such indirect participant’s activities. 
Accordingly, participants with 
portfolios that present similar risks, 
regardless of the type of participant, 
would have similar impacts on their 
Required Fund Deposit and/or 
Segregated Customer Margin 
Requirement amounts. Therefore, 
because the proposed changes are 
designed to provide FICC with a more 
appropriate and complete measure of 
the risks presented by indirect 
participants’ activities, FICC believes 
the proposals are appropriately 
designed to meet its risk management 
goals and its regulatory obligations. 
Accordingly, FICC does not believe 
that the proposed changes to enhance 
the risk management of indirect 
participants would impose any burden 
on competition that is not necessary or 
appropriate in furtherance of the Act.
42 
(C) Clearing Agency’s Statement on 
Comments on the Proposed Rule 
Change Received From Members, 
Participants, or Others 
FICC has not received or solicited any 
written comments relating to this 
proposal. If any written comments are 
received, they will be publicly filed as 
an Exhibit 2 to this filing, as required by 
Form 19b–4 and the General 
Instructions thereto. 
Persons submitting comments are 
cautioned that, according to Section IV 
(Solicitation of Comments) of the 
Exhibit 1A in the General Instructions to 
Form 19b–4, the Commission does not 
edit personal identifying information 
from comment submissions. 
Commenters should submit only 
information that they wish to make 
available publicly, including their 
name, email address, and any other 
identifying information. 
All prospective commenters should 
follow the Commission’s instructions on 
how to submit comments, available at 
www.sec.gov/rules-regulations/how- 
submit-comment. General questions 
regarding the rule filing process or 
logistical questions regarding this filing 
should be directed to the Main Office of 
the Commission’s Division of Trading 
and Markets at tradingandmarkets@
sec.gov or 202–551–5777. 
FICC reserves the right not to respond 
to any comments received. 
III. Date of Effectiveness of the 
Proposed Rule Change, and Timing for 
Commission Action 
Within 45 days of the date of 
publication of this notice in the Federal 
Register or within such longer period 
up to 90 days (i) as the Commission may 
designate if it finds such longer period 
to be appropriate and publishes its 
reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which 
the self-regulatory organization 
consents, the Commission will: 
(A) by order approve or disapprove 
such proposed rule change, or 
(B) institute proceedings to determine 
whether the proposed rule change 
should be disapproved. 
IV. Solicitation of Comments 
Interested persons are invited to 
submit written data, views and 
arguments concerning the foregoing, 
including whether the proposed rule 
change is consistent with the Act. 
Comments may be submitted by any of 
the following methods: 
Electronic Comments 
• Use the Commission’s internet 
comment form (https://www.sec.gov/ 
rules/sro.shtml); or 
• Send an email to rule-comments@
sec.gov. Please include file number SR– 
FICC–2026–003 on the subject line. 
Paper Comments 
• Send paper comments in triplicate 
to Secretary, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 100 F Street NE, 
Washington, DC 20549. 
All submissions should refer to file 
number SR–FICC–2026–003. This file 
number should be included on the 
subject line if email is used. To help the 
Commission process and review your 
comments more efficiently, please use 
only one method. The Commission will 
post all comments on the Commission’s 
internet website (https://www.sec.gov/ 
rules/sro.shtml). Copies of the filing will 
be available for inspection and copying 
at the principal office of FICC and on 
DTCC’s website (www.dtcc.com/legal/ 
sec-rule-filings). Do not include 
personal identifiable information in 
submissions; you should submit only 
information that you wish to make 
available publicly. We may redact in 
part or withhold entirely from 
publication submitted material that is 
obscene or subject to copyright 
protection. All submissions should refer 
to File Number SR–FICC–2026–003 and 
should be submitted on or before 
February 25, 2026. 
For the Commission, by the Division of 
Trading and Markets, pursuant to delegated 
authority.43 
Sherry R. Haywood, 
Assistant Secretary. 
[FR Doc. 2026–02228 Filed 2–3–26; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 8011–01–P 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:18 Feb 03, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\04FEN1.SGM 04FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES