<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 23 (Wednesday, February 4, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 23 (Wednesday, February 4, 2026)]
[Notices]
[Pages 5155-5158]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-02234]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY


Privacy Act; Systems of Records

AGENCY: Departmental Offices, Department of the Treasury.

ACTION: Notice of a new system of records.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended 
(Privacy Act), the Department of the Treasury (Treasury), Departmental 
Offices proposes to establish a new Treasury system of records entitled 
``Department of the Treasury, Departmental Offices DO .0197--Financial 
Assistance Programs'' for information collected in connection with the 
administration of financial assistance programs by Treasury's 
Departmental Offices. This action is necessary to meet the requirements 
of the Privacy Act to publish in the Federal Register notice of the 
existence and character of the system of records maintained by 
Treasury.

DATES: Written comments must be received by March 6, 2026. This new 
system will be effective upon publication. The routine uses will be 
applicable on March 6, 2026 unless Treasury receives comments and 
determines that changes to the system of records notice are necessary.

ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
    <bullet> Federal E-rulemaking Portal: <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a>. 
Follow the instructions for submitting comments. Electronic submission 
of comments allows the commenter maximum time to prepare and submit a 
comment and ensures timely receipt.
    <bullet> Mail: U.S. Department of the Treasury, Attention: Ryan 
Law, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Privacy, Transparency, and Records, 
1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.
    Treasury encourages comments to be submitted via <a href="https://www.regulations.gov">https://www.regulations.gov</a>. All comments submitted, including attachments and 
other supporting material, will be made public, including any 
personally identifiable or confidential business information that is 
included in a comment. Therefore, commenters should submit only 
information that they wish to make publicly available. Commenters who 
wish to remain anonymous should not include identifying information in 
their comments.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general questions and questions 
regarding privacy issues, please contact: Ryan Law, Deputy Assistant 
Secretary for Privacy, Transparency, and Records, Department of the 
Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220; telephone: 
(202) 622-5710.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, 
5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended (the Privacy Act), the Department of the 
Treasury (Treasury), Departmental Offices proposes to establish a new 
system of records entitled ``Department of the Treasury, Departmental 
Offices .0197--Financial Assistance Programs'' for information 
collected in connection with the administration of financial assistance 
programs by Treasury Departmental Offices. These programs include the 
Capital Projects Fund program, Emergency Rental Assistance programs, 
Homeowner Assistance Fund program, Local Assistance and Tribal 
Consistency Fund program, RESTORE Act programs (the Direct Component 
and Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program), Social Impact 
Partnership to Pay for Results Act program, State and Local Fiscal 
Recovery Funds program, and State Small Business Credit Initiative 
programs, as well as other such programs Treasury may administer.
    This established system will be included in Treasury's inventory of 
record systems. Below is the description of the new system, 
``Department of the Treasury, Departmental Offices .0197--Financial 
Assistance Programs.''
    In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552a(r), Treasury has provided a report 
of this new system to OMB and to the U.S. Congress.

    Dated: January 30, 2026.
George Apetse,
Acting Treasury Privacy Officer.

SYSTEM NAME AND NUMBER:
    Department of the Treasury, DO .0197--Financial Assistance 
Programs.

SECURITY CLASSIFICATION:
    Unclassified.

SYSTEM LOCATION:
    Records are maintained at the Departmental Offices: 1500 
Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.

SYSTEM MANAGER(S):
    a. Office of Capital Access, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 
Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.
    b. Office of Economic Policy, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 
Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.
    b. Chief Information Officer, U.S. Department of the Treasury, 1500 
Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.

AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM:
    44 U.S.C. 3101; 44 U.S.C. 3554; 12 U.S.C. 5701 et seq. (State Small 
Business Credit Initiative Programs); 15 U.S.C. 9058a, 9058c (Emergency 
Rental Assistance programs); 15 U.S.C. 9058d (Homeowner Assistance Fund 
program); 33 U.S.C. 1321 note (RESTORE Act programs); 42 U.S.C. 1397n 
et seq. (SIPPRA program); 42 U.S.C. 802-805 (State and Local Fiscal 
Recovery Funds programs, Capital Projects Fund program, and Local 
Assistance and Tribal Consistency Fund) program; E.O. 9397, as amended 
by E.O. 13478; and E.O. 14243.

PURPOSE(S) OF THE SYSTEM:
    The purpose of this system is to collect information from 
recipients and other parties regarding implementation of the financial 
assistance programs administered by Treasury Departmental Offices. 
Treasury may use this information to evaluate compliance with program 
requirements, including compliance with applicable federal laws, 
regulations, and executive orders; to support other audit and program 
oversight activities; to identify potential waste, fraud, and abuse; 
and for research and statistical purposes.

CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY THE SYSTEM:
    This system covers individual beneficiaries of financial assistance 
programs administered by Treasury's Departmental Offices, including the

[[Page 5156]]

Capital Projects Fund program, Emergency Rental Assistance programs, 
Homeowner Assistance Fund program, Local Assistance and Tribal 
Consistency Fund program, RESTORE Act programs (including the Direct 
Component and the Centers of Excellence Research Grants Program), the 
Social Impact Partnerships to Pay for Results Act program, the State 
and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds program, and the State Small Business 
Credit Initiative programs, as well as other similar programs that 
Treasury may administer. Beneficiaries are the ultimate persons or 
entities that receive the intended benefit of the federal assistance. 
The system covers both individual beneficiaries as well as individuals 
associated with small businesses, non-profits, or other entities that 
receive assistance such as individual owners or employees of such 
businesses, or other entities. The system also covers other individuals 
associated with these programs, including employees, agents, or 
representatives of recipients, subrecipients, and their contractors or 
vendors, who carry out or are otherwise involved in program activities. 
In addition, the system includes any other individuals whose 
information is received by Treasury Departmental Offices, either 
directly or indirectly, in the course of program administration, 
compliance, audit, oversight, or research and statistical activities. 
Recipients receive financial assistance directly from Treasury and may 
include: states, territories, tribal governments, territories, local 
governments, public authorities or instrumentalities, non-profits, for-
profit businesses, and other entities. Subrecipients receive funding 
from a Treasury recipient (or pass-through entity) to carry out part of 
a federal program and have programmatic responsibility and may include 
non-profits, for-profit businesses, tribal governments, local 
governments, public authorities or instrumentalities, and other 
entities. Contractors or vendors are individuals or entities that 
provide goods or services to a recipient or subrecipient in support of 
a federal program, but do not carry out the federal program itself.

CATEGORIES OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM:
    Records consist of information collected or otherwise maintained by 
program recipients, subrecipients, and their contractors, including but 
not limited to information collected by recipients, subrecipients, and 
their contractors for the purpose of determining applicant eligibility 
for assistance, administering such assistance, and conducting program 
oversight, audit, and compliance activities.
    Records include application materials and supporting documentation 
submitted by individuals and entities applying for assistance from 
recipients and subrecipients as well as other information related to an 
individual's or entity's application for and receipt of such 
assistance. Records also include documentation regarding contracts 
entered into by recipients and subrecipients with contractors for 
activities undertaken using funds received from Treasury Departmental 
Offices financial assistance programs.
    Information in such records may include, but is not limited to, the 
following information: full legal name; unique identifiers or 
application identification numbers assigned by the recipient, 
subrecipient or contractor; residential address and contact 
information; reported income and household financial information; self-
attestations, certifications, and signatures; supporting documentation 
provided by applicants; amounts of assistance awarded or received; 
periods of assistance, including applicable dates; information about 
employees or owners of recipients, subrecipients, contractors, or 
business beneficiaries; and identifying, demographic, and financial 
information associated with the receipt of or entry into awards, 
grants, loans, contracts, investments, and other transactions, 
including Social Security numbers or taxpayer identification numbers.
    Records in the system may include employment-related and financial 
data necessary to support eligibility determinations, payment 
processing, audit activities, and program integrity functions. Treasury 
would collect such information as necessary for program administration, 
reporting, audit, compliance, or research and statistical purposes.

RECORD SOURCE CATEGORIES:
    The information contained in the system may be provided by 
recipients, subrecipients, and contractors that managed these programs 
on their behalf. Recipients include, but are not limited to, states, 
territories, local governments, Tribes, the freely associated states, 
and various non-profit and for-profit entities.

ROUTINE USES OF RECORDS MAINTAINED IN THE SYSTEM, INCLUDING CATEGORIES 
OF USERS AND PURPOSES OF SUCH USES:
    In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under the 
Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a(b), records and/or information or 
portions thereof maintained as part of this system may be disclosed 
outside Treasury as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as 
follows:
    (1) To the United States Department of Justice (``DOJ''), for the 
purpose of representing or providing legal advice to the Department in 
a proceeding before a court, adjudicative body, or other administrative 
body before which the Department is authorized to appear, when such 
proceeding involves:
    (a) The Department or any component thereof;
    (b) Any employee of the Department in his or her official capacity;
    (c) Any employee of the Department in his or her individual 
capacity where DOJ or the Department has agreed to represent the 
employee; or
    (d) The United States, when the Department determines that 
litigation is likely to affect the Department or any of its components; 
and the use of such records by the DOJ is deemed by the DOJ or the 
Department to be relevant and necessary to the litigation provided that 
the disclosure is compatible with the purpose for which records were 
collected.
    (2) To Federal agencies, non-Federal entities (including States and 
local governments), their employees, and agents (including contractors, 
their agents or employees and employees or contractors of the agents); 
or contractors (including their employees or agents) with which the 
Department has a contract, service agreement, grant, cooperative 
agreement, or computer matching agreement for the purpose of: (1) 
identification, prevention, and recovery of improper payments; (2) 
identification and prevention of fraud, waste, and abuse in Federal 
programs administered by the Department, another Federal agency, or a 
non-Federal entity; or (3) establishing or verifying the eligibility 
of, or continuing compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements 
by, applicants for, recipients or beneficiaries of, participants in, or 
providers of services with respect to assistance or payments under 
Federal programs or recouping payments or recovering delinquent debts 
under such Federal programs;
    (3) To contractors, grantees, experts, consultants, Federal 
agencies, and non-Federal entities, including, but not limited to, 
State and local governments and other research institutions or their 
parties, and entities and their agents with which the Department has a 
contract, service agreement, grant, cooperative agreement, or other 
agreement for the purposes of statistical analysis and research in 
support of program operations, management,

[[Page 5157]]

performance monitoring, evaluation, risk management, and policy 
development, to otherwise support the Department's mission, or for 
other research and statistical purposes not otherwise prohibited by law 
or regulation.
    (4) To appropriate Federal, State, local, or foreign agencies, or 
other public authority responsible for investigating or prosecuting the 
violations of or for enforcing or implementing a statute, rule, 
regulation, order, or license, where the disclosing agency becomes 
aware of an indication of a violation or potential violation of civil 
or criminal law or regulation;
    (5) To a Federal, State, local, or other public authority 
maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information 
or other pertinent information, which has requested information 
relevant to or necessary to the requesting agency's, bureau's, or 
authority's hiring or retention of an individual, or issuance of a 
security clearance, license, contract, grant, or other benefit;
    (6) In a proceeding before a court, adjudicative body, or other 
administrative body before which the agency is authorized to appear 
when: (a) the agency, (b) or any component thereof, (c) any employee of 
the agency in his or her official capacity, (d) any employee of the 
agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of 
Justice or the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (e) the 
United States, when the agency determines that litigation is likely to 
affect the agency, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such 
litigation, and the use of such records by the agency is deemed to be 
relevant and necessary to the litigation or administrative proceeding 
and not otherwise privileged;
    (7) To a Congressional office in response to an inquiry made at the 
request of the individual to whom the record pertains;
    (8) To the news media in accordance with guidelines contained in 28 
CFR 50.2 which pertain to an agency's functions relating to civil and 
criminal proceedings;
    (9) To third parties during the course of an investigation to the 
extent necessary to obtain information pertinent to the investigation;
    (10) To a public or professional licensing organization when such 
information indicates, either by itself or in combination with other 
information, a violation or potential violation of professional 
standards, or reflects on the moral, educational, or professional 
qualifications of an individual who is licensed or who is seeking to 
become licensed;
    (11) To a contractor for the purpose of compiling, organizing, 
analyzing, programming, processing, or otherwise refining records 
subject to the same limitations applicable to U.S. Department of the 
Treasury officers and employees under the Privacy Act;
    (12) To a court, magistrate, or administrative tribunal in the 
course of presenting evidence, including disclosures to opposing 
counsel or witnesses in the course of civil discovery, litigation, or 
settlement negotiations or in connection with criminal law proceedings 
or in response to a court order when Treasury determines that the 
disclosure is relevant and necessary;
    (13) To other Federal agencies to effect salary or administrative 
offset for the purpose of collecting debts, except that addresses 
obtained from the Internal Revenue Service shall not be disclosed to 
other agencies;
    (14) To disclose information to a consumer reporting agency, 
including mailing addresses obtained from the Internal Revenue Service, 
to obtain credit reports;
    (15) To a debt collection agency, including mailing addresses 
obtained from the Internal Revenue Service, for debt collection 
services;
    (16) To unions recognized as exclusive bargaining representatives 
under the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978, 5 U.S.C. 7111 and 7114, the 
Merit Systems Protection Board, arbitrators, the Federal Labor 
Relations Authority, and other parties responsible for the 
administration of the Federal labor-management program for the purpose 
of processing any corrective actions, or grievances, or conducting 
administrative hearings or appeals, or if needed in the performance of 
other authorized duties;
    (17) To a public or professional auditing organization for the 
purpose of conducting financial audit and/or compliance audits;
    (18) To a student participating in a Treasury student volunteer 
program, where such disclosure is necessary to support program 
functions of Treasury, and
    (19) To appropriate agencies, entities, and person when (1) the 
Department of the Treasury suspects or has confirmed that there has 
been a breach of the system of records; (2) the Department of the 
Treasury has determined that as a result of the suspected or confirmed 
breach there is a risk of harm to individuals, the Department of the 
Treasury (including its information systems, programs, and operations), 
the Federal Government, or national security; and (3) the disclosure 
made to such agencies, entities, and persons is reasonably necessary to 
assist in connection with the Department of the Treasury's efforts to 
respond to the suspected or confirmed breach or to prevent, minimize, 
or remedy such harm.
    (20) To another Federal agency or Federal entity, when the 
Department of the Treasury determines that information from this system 
of records is reasonably necessary to assist the recipient agency or 
entity in (1) responding to a suspected or confirmed breach or (2) 
preventing, minimizing, or remedying the risk of harm to individuals, 
the recipient agency or entity (including its information systems, 
programs, and operations), the Federal Government, or national 
security, resulting from a suspected or confirmed breach.
    (21) The National Archives and Records Administration for use in 
its records management inspections and its role as an Archivist under 
the authority of 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR STORAGE OF RECORDS:
    Records in this system are stored electronically in secure 
facilities. Paper records (if they must be created/maintained) are 
stored in a locked drawer, behind a locked door, or at a secure offsite 
location.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR RETRIEVAL OF RECORDS:
    Records in this system may be retrieved, for authorized purposes, 
by name or another unique identifier.

POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR RETENTION AND DISPOSAL OF RECORDS:
    Records in this system will be maintained and disposed in 
accordance with National Archives and Records Administration retention 
schedules.

ADMINISTRATIVE, TECHNICAL, AND PHYSICAL SAFEGUARDS:
    Records in this system are safeguarded in accordance with 
applicable laws and policies, including all applicable Treasury 
information systems security and access policies. Strict controls are 
imposed to minimize the risk of compromising the information that is 
being stored. Access to the records in this system is limited to those 
individuals who have appropriate permissions and a need to know for the 
performance of their official duties. User activity is recorded by the 
system for audit purposes. Electronic records are encrypted at rest

[[Page 5158]]

and in transit. Records are maintained in buildings subject to 24-hour 
security.

RECORD ACCESS PROCEDURES:
    See ``Notification Procedures'' below.

CONTESTING RECORD PROCEDURES:
    See ``Notification Procedures'' below.

NOTIFICATION PROCEDURES:
    Individuals seeking notification and access to any record contained 
in this system of records, or seeking to contest its content, may 
inquire in writing in accordance with instructions appearing at 31 CFR 
part 1, subpart C, appendix A. Requests for information and specific 
guidance on where to send requests for records may be addressed to: 
Privacy Act Request, DO, Director, FOIA and Transparency, Department of 
the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue NW, Washington, DC 20220.

EXEMPTIONS PROMULGATED FOR THE SYSTEM:
    None.

HISTORY:
    None.

[FR Doc. 2026-02234 Filed 2-3-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4810-AK-P


</pre></body>
</html>