4994 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 22 / Tuesday, February 3, 2026 / Notices 
13 17 CFR 200.30–3(a)(12). 
1 The CME is a derivatives clearing organization 
(‘‘DCO’’) registered with the Commodity Futures 
Trading Commission (‘‘CFTC’’). 
2 15 U.S.C. 78mm. Section 36(a)(1) of the 
Exchange Act gives the Commission the authority 
to exempt any person, security or transaction or any 
class or classes of persons, securities or 
transactions, conditionally or unconditionally, from 
any Exchange Act provision by rule, regulation or 
order, to the extent that the exemption is necessary 
or appropriate in the public interest and consistent 
with the protection of investors. 
3 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. 
4 17 CFR 240.0–12. Exchange Act Rule 0–12 sets 
forth procedures for filing applications for orders 
for exemptive relief pursuant to Section 36. The 
application will not appear in the Federal Register 
(‘‘Application’’). The Application is available on the 
Commission’s internet website at www.sec.gov. 
Defined terms in this notice are the same as used 
in the Application, unless we note otherwise. 
5 15 U.S.C. 78o(c)(3). 
6 17 CFR 240.15c3–3. 
7 See Standards for Covered Clearing Agencies for 
U.S. Treasury Securities and Application of the 
Broker-Dealer Customer Protection Rule With 
Respect to U.S. Treasury Securities, Exchange Act 
Release No. 99149 (Dec. 13, 2023), 89 FR 2714 (Jan. 
16, 2024) (‘‘Treasury Clearing Adopting Release’’). 
8 See Treasury Clearing Adopting Release, 89 FR 
at 2750. 
ETPs or other products with unique 
structural characteristics, might favor 
listing on other exchanges that provide 
greater flexibility in compliance 
timeframes, which could disadvantage 
the Exchange and reduce competition 
among listing venues. The proposed 
rule change levels the competitive 
playing field and ensures that listing 
venue selection is based on factors other 
than disparities in compliance 
procedures. 
The Exchange believes the proposed 
rule change may enhance intermarket 
competition by enabling the Exchange 
to attract and retain listings of ETPs that 
might otherwise list on competing 
venues with more flexible compliance 
frameworks. This increased competition 
among listing venues benefits investors 
by providing greater choice in where 
and how to access investment products. 
Other exchanges remain free to adopt 
similar accommodations or to maintain 
their existing compliance procedures, 
ensuring that competition among 
exchanges continues to drive 
improvements in listing standards and 
procedures. 
For these reasons, the Exchange does 
not believe the proposed rule change 
will impose any burden on competition 
that is not necessary or appropriate in 
furtherance of the purposes of the Act. 
C. Self-Regulatory Organization’s 
Statement on Comments on the 
Proposed Rule Change Received From 
Members, Participants, or Others 
The Exchange neither solicited nor 
received comments on the proposed 
rule change. 
III. Date of Effectiveness of the 
Proposed Rule Change and Timing for 
Commission Action 
Within 45 days of the date of 
publication of this notice in the Federal 
Register or within such longer period 
up to 90 days (i) as the Commission may 
designate if it finds such longer period 
to be appropriate and publishes its 
reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which 
the Exchange consents, the Commission 
will: 
A. by order approve or disapprove 
such proposed rule change, or 
B. institute proceedings to determine 
whether the proposed rule change 
should be disapproved. 
IV. Solicitation of Comments 
Interested persons are invited to 
submit written data, views and 
arguments concerning the foregoing, 
including whether the proposed rule 
change is consistent with the Act. 
Comments may be submitted by any of 
the following methods: 
Electronic Comments 
• Use the Commission’s internet 
comment form (https://www.sec.gov/ 
rules/sro.shtml); or 
• Send an email to rule-comments@
sec.gov. Please include file number SR– 
CboeBZX–2026–005 on the subject line. 
Paper Comments 
• Send paper comments in triplicate 
to Secretary, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 100 F Street NE, 
Washington, DC 20549–1090. 
All submissions should refer to file 
number SR-CboeBZX–2026–005. This 
file number should be included on the 
subject line if email is used. To help the 
Commission process and review your 
comments more efficiently, please use 
only one method. The Commission will 
post all comments on the Commission’s 
internet website (https://www.sec.gov/ 
rules/sro.shtml). Copies of the filing will 
be available for inspection and copying 
at the principal office of the Exchange. 
Do not include personal identifiable 
information in submissions; you should 
submit only information that you wish 
to make available publicly. We may 
redact in part or withhold entirely from 
publication submitted material that is 
obscene or subject to copyright 
protection. All submissions should refer 
to file number SR–CboeBZX–2026–005 
and should be submitted on or before 
February 24, 2026. 
For the Commission, by the Division of 
Trading and Markets, pursuant to delegated 
authority.13 
Sherry R. Haywood, 
Assistant Secretary. 
[FR Doc. 2026–02120 Filed 2–2–26; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 8011–01–P 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION 
[Release No. 34–104748; File No. S7–2026– 
03] 
Notice of an Application of the Fixed 
Income Clearing Corporation and 
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. for 
an Exemption Pursuant to Section 36 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
in Connection With the Cross- 
Margining of U.S. Treasury Securities 
and Related Futures 
January 30, 2026. 
On December 11, 2025, the Securities 
and Exchange Commission 
(‘‘Commission’’) received an application 
from the Fixed Income Clearing 
Corporation (‘‘FICC’’), a clearing agency 
registered with the Commission, and the 
Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. 
(‘‘CME’’)
1 to obtain an exemption 
pursuant to Section 36 2 of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(‘‘Exchange Act’’),
3 in accordance with 
the procedures set forth in Exchange Act 
Rule 0–12.
4 Specifically, FICC and CME 
are requesting exemptive relief, on 
behalf of certain of their joint clearing 
members that are dually-registered as 
broker-dealers and futures commission 
merchants, from Section 15(c)(3) of the 
Exchange Act
5 and Rule 15c3–3 6 
thereunder in connection with a 
program to cross-margin customer 
positions in U.S. Treasury securities 
positions cleared by FICC and related 
futures cleared by CME in a futures 
account from the period of novation 
through settlement of a trade. The 
Commission is publishing this notice to 
provide interested persons with an 
opportunity to comment. 
I. Background 
On December 13, 2023, the 
Commission adopted rules under the 
Exchange Act to amend the standards 
applicable to certain clearing agencies to 
enhance risk management practices for 
central counterparties in the U.S. 
Treasury market and facilitate 
additional clearing of U.S. Treasury 
securities.
7 As described in the Treasury 
Clearing Adopting Release, several 
commenters discussed facilitating cross- 
margining of indirect participants’ (i.e., 
customers’ or end users’) transactions in 
U.S. Treasury securities with those in 
U.S. Treasury futures as a method to 
lower costs of trading and thereby 
incentivize additional clearing.
8 In 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Feb 02, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00134 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\03FEN1.SGM 03FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES
4995 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 22 / Tuesday, February 3, 2026 / Notices 
9 Id. at 2751. Other organizations also have 
recommended that the Commission permit 
clearinghouse/DCO level cross-margining for 
customers for certain U.S. Treasury securities 
transactions cleared at a clearing agency and related 
futures cleared at a DCO, and that the cross- 
margining occur in a futures account. See CFTC 
Global Markets Advisory Committee Advances Key 
Recommendations, CFTC Release No. 8860–24 
(Feb. 8, 2024); see also Treasury Market Practices 
Group, Consultative White Paper: Non-Centrally 
Cleared Bilateral Repo and Indirect Clearing in the 
U.S. Treasury Market: Focus on Margining Practices 
(Feb. 26, 2025). 
10 15 U.S.C. 78o(b). 
11 7 U.S.C. 6f(a)(1). 
12 In connection with the Application, FICC also 
has submitted a proposed rule change to the 
Commission needed to implement the customer 
cross-margin program with CME. See FICC, Notice 
of Filing of Proposed Rule Change to Amend and 
Restate the Second Amended and Restated Cross- 
Margining Agreement Between FICC and CME and 
Amend Related GSD Rules, Exchange Act Release 
No. 104485 (Dec. 22, 2025), 90 FR 60791 (Dec. 29, 
2025) [File No. SR–FICC–2025–025]. CME and FICC 
have also submitted a petition for an exemptive 
order from the CFTC in connection with the 
proposal. See CFTC, Proposal to Provide Exemptive 
Relief to Facilitate Cross-Margining of Customer 
Positions Cleared at Chicago Mercantile Exchange, 
Inc. and Fixed Income Clearing Corporation, 90 FR 
58525 (Dec. 17, 2025). 
13 17 CFR 240.15c3–3. 
14 Section 15(c)(3)(A) of the Exchange Act 
provides, in pertinent part, that no broker-dealer 
shall make use of the mails or any means or 
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any 
transaction in, or to induce or attempt to induce the 
purchase or sale of, any security (with exceptions 
for certain securities) in contravention of such rules 
and regulations as the Commission shall prescribe 
as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or 
for the protection of investors to provide safeguards 
with respect to the financial responsibility and 
related practices of broker-dealers including, but 
not limited to, the acceptance of custody and use 
of customers’ securities and the carrying and use of 
customers’ deposits or credit balances. 15 U.S.C. 
78o(c)(3)(A). 
15 See 15 U.S.C. 78aaa et. seq.; see also Daily 
Computation of Customer and Broker-Dealer 
Reserve Requirements under the Broker-Dealer 
Customer Protection Rule, Exchange Act Release 
No. 102022 (Dec. 20, 2024), 90 FR 2790, 2791 (Jan. 
13, 2025). 
16 See Application, at p.1. 
17 See e.g., notes 1 and 16 in the Application. 
18 This arrangement was originally approved by 
the Commission and CFTC in 2003 and amended 
in 2023. See note 3 and accompanying text in the 
Application; see also section II. of the Application. 
19 See section I. of the Application. 
20 See section IV.c. of the Application. This 
bankruptcy treatment would be achieved through 
the execution of a required non-conforming 
subordination agreement between the XM Customer 
and the Eligible BD–FCM. See proposed conditions 
below and section VI. of the Application 
(discussing the proposed conditions). 
21 See section III. of the Application. 
22 See section III. of the Application. 
response to these comments, the 
Commission agreed that cross-margining 
can be beneficial to market 
participants.
9 
FICC and CME currently have in place 
a proprietary cross-margining 
arrangement that allows a broker-dealer 
that is: (1) registered under Section 
15(b) of the Exchange Act
10 and also 
registered as a futures commission 
merchant pursuant to Section 4f(a)(1) of 
the Commodity Exchange Act
11 
(‘‘CEA’’) (a ‘‘BD–FCM’’), and (2) a joint 
clearing member of both FICC and CME, 
acting for itself or for certain non- 
customer affiliates, to have initial 
margin requirements for certain FICC- 
cleared eligible securities positions and 
certain CME-cleared eligible futures 
positions calculated in a way that 
recognizes the risk offsets across those 
positions. Customers who clear 
positions at FICC and CME through a 
joint clearing member are not eligible to 
have their positions cross-margined 
under the current cross-margining 
arrangement. FICC and CME have 
requested that the Commission permit 
FICC and CME to extend this existing 
cross-margining arrangement to 
customer positions.
12 
To implement a customer cross- 
margin program, FICC and CME, on 
behalf of their joint BD–FCM members, 
filed the Application for exemptive 
relief from Section 15(c)(3) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 15c3–3
13 
thereunder under Section 36 of the 
Exchange Act. Rule 15c3–3 under the 
Exchange Act,
14 the broker-dealer 
customer protection rule, requires 
broker-dealers that hold customer cash 
and securities to treat these assets in a 
manner that facilitates their prompt 
return to the customers if the broker- 
dealer fails financially. The goal of Rule 
15c3–3 is to place a broker-dealer in a 
position where it is able to wind down 
in an orderly self-liquidation without 
the need of financial assistance 
provided by the Securities Investor 
Protection Corporation (‘‘SIPC’’) through 
a formal proceeding under the 
Securities Investor Protection Act of 
1970 (‘‘SIPA’’), or through proceedings 
under subchapter III of Chapter 7 of the 
U.S. Bankruptcy Code (i.e., the 
stockbroker liquidation provisions).
15 
II. Summary of the Application and 
Proposed Conditions 
FICC and CME request that, pursuant 
to Section 36 of the Exchange Act, the 
Commission provide exemptive relief to 
a firm that is a BD–FCM and a joint 
clearing member of FICC and CME 
(‘‘Eligible BD–FCMs’’) from Section 
15(c)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
15c3–3 thereunder to permit Eligible 
BD–FCMs to hold certain securities and 
customer assets used to margin, secure, 
or guarantee such positions in a ‘‘futures 
account’’ as defined in CFTC Regulation 
1.3 and subject to CEA Section 4d(a) 
and (b) and related CFTC regulations 
thereunder.
16 As described in the 
Application, the requested relief would 
not apply to any transactions that are 
not novated to FICC and any cash and 
securities that have been received upon 
final settlement of any such 
transactions.
17 
In its Application, FICC and CME 
state that they currently have in place a 
cross-margining arrangement that allows 
a joint clearing member to have the 
initial margin requirements for certain 
FICC-cleared Treasury securities and 
certain CME-cleared Treasury and 
interest rate futures contracts (together, 
‘‘Eligible Positions’’) calculated in a way 
that recognizes the risk offsets across 
these positions (‘‘Proprietary XM 
Arrangement’’).
18 The Application 
requests that customers of a firm that is 
an Eligible BD–FCM (‘‘Eligible 
Customers’’) be permitted to elect to 
cross-margin for Eligible Positions 
cleared by the Eligible BD–FCM at FICC 
and at CME respectively. As described 
in the Application, the participating 
Eligible Customer (an ‘‘XM Customer’’) 
would be able to designate Eligible 
Positions that are securities (‘‘XM 
Securities Positions’’) and associated 
margin to be carried in a futures account 
that also contains Eligible Positions that 
are futures (together with XM Securities 
Positions, the ‘‘XM Customer 
Positions’’) and associated margin on 
the books and records of an Eligible BD– 
FCM and generally subject to the 
requirements and protections of the 
CEA and the CFTC regulations, rather 
than in a securities account subject to 
the Exchange Act and the rules 
thereunder.
19 The XM Customer 
Positions and associated margin would 
also, in the event of an Eligible BD– 
FCM’s insolvency proceeding under 
SIPA, be subject to subchapter IV of 
Chapter 7 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code 
(i.e., the commodity broker liquidation 
provisions) and the CFTC’s Part 190 
regulations thereunder rather than SIPA 
or subchapter III of Chapter 7 of the U.S. 
Bankruptcy Code.
20 
In the Application, FICC and CME 
describe the features of the ‘‘Proposed 
Customer XM Framework,’’
21 including 
eligible positions, eligible participants, 
margin calculation and collection, 
account structure at the clearinghouse 
and clearing member level, and default 
management process.
22 Further, FICC 
and CME describe the treatment of XM 
Customer Positions and associated 
margin of an Eligible BD–FCM under 
the CEA and CFTC regulations, and the 
treatment of the XM Customer Positions 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Feb 02, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00135 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\03FEN1.SGM 03FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES
4996 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 22 / Tuesday, February 3, 2026 / Notices 
23 See section IV. of the Application. 
24 See section V. of the Application. 
25 See section V. of the Application. 
26 See section VI. of the Application; see also 
section III. of the Application for a description of 
the features of the Proposed Customer Framework. 27 See section VI. of the Application. 
28 See section VI. of the Application. 
29 See, e.g., section V. of the Application; see also 
supra note 25 and accompanying text in this Notice. 
30 See note 27 and accompanying text in this 
Notice. 
and associated margin in the event of an 
Eligible BD–FCM’s insolvency.23 
FICC and CME also describe the 
reasons that they believe support the 
Commission finding that the requested 
exemptive relief is consistent with 
Section 36 of the Exchange Act.
24 These 
reasons described in detail in the 
Application include: (1) aligning initial 
margin requirements more closely with 
the risk profile of the portfolio; (2) 
incentivizing XM Customers to post 
initial margin for XM Securities 
Positions, rather than rely on their 
clearing member to do so; (3) 
incentivizing Eligible Customers to use 
the same Eligible BD–FCMs for 
securities and futures clearing and 
therefore facilitate the development of 
done-away clearing; and (4) ensure 
robust protection of customer assets for 
participating XM Customers.
25 
Finally, in the Application, FICC and 
CME also propose certain conditions in 
support of their request for exemptive 
relief from Section 15(c)(3) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 15c3–3 
thereunder for the ‘‘Proposed Customer 
XM Framework.’’
26 Specifically, in the 
Application, FICC and CME propose 
that: 
• All money, securities, or property 
received by an Eligible BD–FCM to 
margin, guarantee, or secure XM 
Customer Positions or accruing as a 
result of such trades or contracts, and 
held subject to the terms of a 
Commission order shall be carried in a 
futures account for or on behalf of the 
XM Customers and shall be deemed to 
have been received by the Eligible BD– 
FCM and be accounted for and treated 
and dealt with as belonging to the XM 
Customers of the Eligible BD–FCM 
consistent with CEA Section 4d(a)(2). 
• Each Eligible BD–FCM shall enter 
into a non-conforming subordination 
agreement with each XM Customer prior 
to the XM Customer’s participation in 
cross-margining under the Proposed 
Customer XM Framework, pursuant to 
which the XM Customer shall 
specifically agree and acknowledge that 
(i) its XM Securities Positions and 
associated FICC-held margin will not 
receive customer treatment under the 
Exchange Act or SIPA or be treated as 
‘‘customer property’’ as defined in 11 
U.S.C. 741 in a liquidation of the 
Eligible BD–FCM; (ii) its XM Securities 
Positions and associated FICC-held 
margin will be subject to any applicable 
protections under Subchapter IV of 
Chapter 7 of Title 11 of the United 
States Code and rules and regulations 
thereunder; and (iii) claims to 
‘‘customer property’’ as defined in SIPA 
or 11 U.S.C. 741 against the Eligible BD– 
FCM with respect to its XM Securities 
Positions and associated FICC-held 
margin will be subordinated to the 
claims of all other customers, as the 
term ‘‘customer’’ is defined in 11 U.S.C. 
741 or SIPA.
27 
• Cross-margining shall be applied to 
XM Customer Positions only if both the 
Eligible Customer and its Eligible BD– 
FCM agree to participate. 
• Positions of an Eligible Customer 
shall be eligible for cross-margining if 
such positions are otherwise Eligible 
Positions under the Proprietary XM 
Arrangement, as the same may be 
amended from time to time. 
• Each of FICC and CME shall 
calculate initial margin requirements for 
XM Customer Positions on a gross basis 
(i.e., customer-by-customer) using the 
same margin reduction methodology as 
used in the Proprietary XM 
Arrangement. 
• FICC and CME shall amend their 
rulebooks as may be necessary to effect 
the Proposed Customer XM Framework 
and the terms of any Commission order. 
• Each Eligible BD–FCM shall require 
each of its XM Customers to deposit, at 
a minimum, the aggregate amount of 
initial margin required by each 
clearinghouse in respect of the XM 
Customer’s XM Customer Positions. 
• Each Eligible BD–FCM must be in 
compliance with applicable laws and 
regulations relating to risk management, 
capital, and liquidity, and must be in 
compliance with applicable FICC and 
CME rules and CFTC requirements 
(including segregation and related books 
and records provisions) for the futures 
accounts in connection with the 
Proposed Customer XM Framework. 
• Before receiving any money, 
securities, or property of an Eligible 
Customer to margin, guarantee, or 
secure XM Customer Positions in 
connection with the Proposed Customer 
XM Framework, the Eligible BD–FCM 
must furnish to the Eligible Customer a 
disclosure document containing (i) a 
statement indicating that such money, 
securities, or property will be held in an 
futures account, and that the Eligible 
Customer has elected to seek protections 
under Subchapter IV of Chapter 7 of 
Title 11 of the United States Code and 
the rules and regulations thereunder 
with respect to such property; and (ii) 
a statement that the broker-dealer 
segregation requirements of Section 
15(c)(3) of the Exchange Act and the 
rules thereunder, and any customer 
protections under SIPA and the 
stockbroker liquidation provisions, will 
not apply to such money, securities, or 
property of the Eligible Customer.
28 
III. Request for Comment 
We request and encourage any 
interested person to submit comments 
regarding the Application, including 
whether the Commission should grant 
the request. In particular, we solicit 
comment on the following questions: 
1. Do commenters agree with FICC’s 
and CME’s reasons described in the 
Application
29 in support of the 
Commission finding that the exemptive 
relief is consistent with Section 36 of 
the Exchange Act? If so, why or why 
not. 
2. Are there other or alternative 
conditions not outlined in the 
Application that the Commission 
should consider? If so, please describe 
those conditions. 
3. Does the proposed language 
required in the non-conforming 
subordination agreement
30 achieve the 
objectives of: (1) removing customers 
participating in cross-margining under 
the Proposed Customer XM Framework 
from the definition of ‘‘customer’’ under 
Rule 15c3–3, SIPA, and the stockbroker 
liquidation provisions with respect to 
securities or cash held in CFTC futures 
accounts; (2) not undermining the 
protections afforded to customers 
participating in cross-margining under 
the Proposed Customer XM Framework 
under the rules of the CFTC, the CEA, 
and commodity broker liquidation 
provisions; and (3) not requiring 
customers participating in cross- 
margining under the Proposed Customer 
XM Framework to subordinate their 
claims, in the event that their customer 
claims are not fully satisfied by the 
distribution of assets held in their CFTC 
futures accounts, to assets that may be 
included in the debtor’s general estate? 
Is there alternative language that would 
be better to achieve these objectives? 
4. Should the Commission consider 
requiring FICC or CME to provide 
Eligible BD–FCMs and their Eligible 
Customers with the ability to select a 
securities account as an alternative to a 
CFTC futures account as a condition to 
granting exemptive relief? 
5. Should there be any limitations on 
the type of customers that may 
participate in cross-margining under the 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Feb 02, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00136 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\03FEN1.SGM 03FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES
4997 Federal Register / Vol. 91, No. 22 / Tuesday, February 3, 2026 / Notices 
1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). 
2 17 CFR 240.19b–4. 
3 Each capitalized term not otherwise defined 
herein has its meaning as set forth in the Rules, By- 
Laws and Organization Certificate of DTC (‘‘Rules’’), 
available at www.dtcc.com/-/media/Files/ 
Downloads/legal/rules/dtc_rules.pdf, or the DTC 
Settlement Service Guide (‘‘Settlement Guide’’), 
available at www.dtcc.com/-/media/Files/ 
Downloads/legal/service-guides/Settlement.pdf. 
4 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 104484 
(Dec. 22, 2025). 90 FR 61205 (Dec. 30, 2025) (File 
No. SR–DTC–2025–019) (‘‘Notice of Filing’’) 
5 A ‘‘central securities depository’’ means a 
securities depository who: (1) acts as a custodian of 
securities in connection with a system for the 
central handling of securities whereby all securities 
of a particular class or series of any issuer deposited 
within the system are treated as fungible and may 
be transferred, loaned, or pledged by bookkeeping 
entry without physical delivery of securities 
certificates; or, (2) otherwise permits or facilitates 
the settlement of securities transactions or the 
hypothecation or lending of securities without 
physical delivery of securities certificates. See 17 
CFR 240.17ad–22(a) (referencing the definition of 
‘‘securities depository’’ described in Section 
3(a)(23)(A) of the Act,15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(23)(A)). 
6 ‘‘Delivery Versus Payment’’ means a Delivery 
against a settlement debit to the Account of the 
Receiver See Rule 1, supra note 3 (definitionof 
‘‘Delivery Versus Payment’’). See also The 
Depository Trust Company, Disclosure Framework 
for Covered Clearing Agencies and Financial Market 
Infrastructures (Mar. 2023) (‘‘Disclosure 
Framework’’), at 18, available at https://
www.dtcc.com/-/media/Files/Downloads/legal/ 
policy-and-compliance/DTC_Disclosure_
Framework.pdf. 
7 See Disclosure Framework, supra note 6, at 61; 
Notice of Filing, supra note 4, at 61205. 
8 See Disclosure Framework, supra note 6,. at 12. 
9 Notice of Filing, supra note 4, at 61205. A 
Participant’s collateral refers to the sum of (i) the 
Actual Participants Fund Deposit of the Participant, 
(ii) the Actual Preferred Stock Investment of a 
Participant, (iii) all Net Additions of the Participant 
and (iv) any SPP wired by the Participant to the 
Corporation. See Rule 1, supra note 3 (definition of 
‘‘Collateral’’). 
10 See Notice of Filing, supra note 4, at 61205– 
61206 
Proposed Customer XM Framework as a 
condition to granting exemptive relief? 
If so, what type of limitation(s)? If not, 
why not? 
6. Would the exemption requested in 
the Application have a competitive 
impact—either positive or negative—on 
broker-dealers and their customers in 
the context of clearing for U.S. Treasury 
securities? What would be the potential 
benefits and costs of the exemption? 
Would the exemption and conditions 
impact investor protection? If so, what 
would those impacts be? 
7. Should the Commission consider 
broadening the exemptive relief 
requested by FICC and CME to be 
available to any clearing agency and 
DCO and their joint clearing members 
with a cross-margining program that 
meets the conditions of an exemptive 
order? Why or why not? 
8. If the exemptive relief was 
broadened, how would the conditions 
proposed by FICC and CME in the 
Application be modified? 
Comments should be received on or 
before March 5, 2026. Comments may be 
submitted by any of the following 
methods: 
Electronic Comments 
• Use the Commission’s internet 
comment form (http://www.sec.gov/ 
rules/other.shtml); or 
• Send an email to rule-comments@
sec.gov. Please include File Number S7– 
2026–03 on the subject line. 
Paper Comments 
• Send paper comments to Secretary, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 
20549–1090. 
All submissions should refer to File 
Number S7–2026–03. This file number 
should be included on the subject line 
if email is used. To help the 
Commission process and review your 
comments more efficiently, please use 
only one method of submission. The 
Commission will post all comments on 
the Commission’s internet website 
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml). 
Do not include personal identifiable 
information in submissions; you should 
submit only information that you wish 
to make available publicly. We may 
redact in part or withhold entirely from 
publication submitted material that is 
obscene or subject to copyright 
protection. 
For further information, you may 
contact Michael A. Macchiaroli, 
Associate Director; Raymond A. 
Lombardo, Assistant Director; Sheila 
Dombal Swartz, Senior Special Counsel; 
or Nina Kostyukovsky, Special Counsel 
at (202) 551–5500, Office of Broker- 
Dealer Finances, Division of Trading 
and Markets, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 100 F Street NE, 
Washington, DC 20549–7010. 
By the Commission. 
Sherry R. Haywood, 
Assistant Secretary. 
[FR Doc. 2026–02177 Filed 2–2–26; 8:45 am] 
BILLING CODE 8011–01–P 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION 
[Release No. 34–104740; File No. SR–DTC– 
2025–019] 
Self-Regulatory Organizations; The 
Depository Trust Company; Order 
Approving Proposed Rule Change To 
Modify the DTC Settlement Service 
Guide and DTC Rules as They Relate 
to the DTC Net Debit Cap 
January 29, 2026. 
I. Introduction 
On December 18, 2025, the Depository 
Trust Company (‘‘DTC’’) filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
(‘‘Commission’’) proposed rule change 
SR–DTC–2025–019, pursuant to Section 
19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (‘‘Act’’)
1 and Rule 19b–4 
thereunder.2 The Proposed Rule Change 
would modify the DTC Settlement 
Service Guide (‘‘Settlement Guide’’) and 
the Rules, By-Laws and Organization 
Certificate of DTC (‘‘Rules’’)
3 regarding 
how DTC sets its maximum debit caps 
for Participants, Unaffiliated 
Participants, and Affiliated Families, as 
well as other corresponding changes. 
The Proposed Rule Change was 
published for comment in the Federal 
Register on December 30, 2025.
4 The 
Commission has received no comments 
on the changes proposed. 
For the reasons discussed below, the 
Commission is approving the Proposed 
Rule Change. 
II. Background 
DTC serves as a central securities 
depository
5 and operates a securities 
settlement system. DTC’s activities 
include holding securities in physical or 
dematerialized form, maintaining 
securities accounts for Participants, 
providing central safekeeping and asset 
services, transfers and pledges of 
securities, and the settlement of 
transactions by book entry (free of 
payment or DVP).
6 DTC’s liquidity risk 
management strategy is designed to 
facilitate its maintenance of sufficient 
liquid resources to complete settlement 
each Business Day.
7 To that end, DTC 
uses certain risk management controls, 
including its Collateral Monitor and Net 
Debit Cap, to protect its settlement 
system in the event of a Participant 
default, by ensuring that at any time the 
settlement obligation of any Participant 
will be fully collateralized and that the 
amount to be settled cannot exceed 
DTC’s liquidity resources.
8 
Collateral Monitor. The Collateral 
Monitor is a calculation by which DTC 
measures the sufficiency of the 
Collateral in a Participant’s account to 
cover its net settlement obligation.
9 The 
Collateral Monitor prevents the 
completion of transactions that would 
cause a Participant’s Net Debit Balance 
to exceed the value of Collateral in its 
account.
10 The settlement obligation of 
each Participant must be fully 
collateralized, based on the Collateral 
Monitor. This is designed so that if a 
Participant fails to pay for its settlement 
obligation, DTC will have sufficient 
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Feb 02, 2026 Jkt 268001 PO 00000 Frm 00137 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\03FEN1.SGM 03FEN1khammond on DSK9W7S144PROD with NOTICES