DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY 
 WASHINGTON, D.C. 
 
 
 
OFFICE OF FOREIGN ASSETS CONTROL 
 
Venezuela Sanctions Regulations  
31 CFR part 591 
 
GENERAL LICENSE NO. 47 
 
Authorizing the Sale of U.S.-Origin Diluents to Venezuela 
 
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this general license, all transactions prohibited 
by the Venezuela Sanctions Regulations, 31 CFR part 591 (the VSR), including those involving 
the Government of Venezuela, Petróleos de Venezuela, S.A. (PdVSA), or any entity in which 
PdVSA owns, directly or indirectly, a 50 percent or greater interest (collectively, “PdVSA 
Entities”), that are ordinarily incident and necessary to the exportation, reexportation, sale, 
resale, supply, storage, marketing, delivery, or transportation of U.S.-origin diluents to 
Venezuela are authorized, provided that any contract for such transactions with the Government 
of Venezuela, PdVSA, or PdVSA Entities specify that the laws of the United States or any 
jurisdiction within the United States govern the contract and that any dispute resolution under the 
contract occur in the United States. 
 
Note 1 to Paragraph (a).  Transactions authorized by paragraph (a) include processing 
of payments, arranging shipping and logistics services, including chartering vessels, obtaining 
marine insurance and protection and indemnity (P&I) coverage, and arranging port and terminal 
services, including with port authorities or terminal operators that are part of the Government of 
Venezuela.   
 
(b) This general license does not authorize: 
 
(1) Payment terms that are not commercially reasonable, involve debt swaps or payments  
in gold, or are denominated in digital currency, digital coin, or digital tokens issued by, for, or on 
behalf of the Government of Venezuela, including the petro; 
 
(2) Any transaction involving a person located in or organized under the laws of the 
Islamic Republic of Iran, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the Republic of Cuba, or 
any entity that is owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by or in a joint venture with such 
persons;  
 
(3) The unblocking of any property blocked pursuant to the VSR, except as provided in 
paragraph (a); or 
 
(4) Any transaction involving a blocked vessel. 
 
(c) Any person that exports, reexports, sells, resells, or supplies U.S.-origin diluents to 
Venezuela pursuant to this general license must provide a detailed report to 

 
2 
 
Sanctions_inbox@state.gov and VZReporting@doe.gov that identifies, for each of these 
transactions: 
 
(1) The parties involved;  
 
(2) The quantities and values; and 
 
(3) The dates the transactions occurred. 
 
(d) Reports described in paragraph (c) are due ten days after the execution of the first of 
such transactions and every 90 days thereafter while such transactions are ongoing.
 
   
Note to General License No. 47.  Nothing in this general license relieves any person 
from compliance with the requirements of other Federal agencies, including the Department of 
Commerce’s Bureau of Industry and Security. 
 
 
 
 
__________________________ 
Bradley T. Smith 
Director 
Office of Foreign Assets Control 
 
Dated:  February 3, 2026
 
 