<html>
<head>
<title>Federal Register, Volume 91 Issue 25 (Friday, February 6, 2026)</title>
</head>
<body><pre>
[Federal Register Volume 91, Number 25 (Friday, February 6, 2026)]
[Rules and Regulations]
[Pages 5303-5316]
From the Federal Register Online via the Government Publishing Office [<a href="http://www.gpo.gov">www.gpo.gov</a>]
[FR Doc No: 2026-02437]


=======================================================================
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

Office of the Secretary

32 CFR Part 220

[Docket ID: DoD-2022-HA-0054]
RIN 0720-AB87


Medical Billing for Healthcare Services Provided by Department of 
Defense Military Medical Treatment Facilities to Civilian Non-
Beneficiaries

AGENCY: Defense Health Agency (DHA), Department of Defense (DoD).

ACTION: Final rule.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

SUMMARY: As required by the James M. Inhofe National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (NDAA-23), this rule reduces 
financial harm to civilians who are not covered beneficiaries of the 
Military Health System (MHS), and who receive healthcare services at 
DoD military medical treatment facilities (MTF). The rulemaking 
implements the MHS Modified Payment and Waiver Program (MPWP) through 
which the DoD applies a sliding fee scale and/or a catastrophic fee 
waiver to medical invoices of certain non-beneficiaries and accepts 
payments from health insurers of non-beneficiaries as full payment 
except for copays, coinsurance, deductibles, nominal fees and non-
covered services.

DATES: This rulemaking is effective on March 9, 2026.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Merlyn Jenkins, phone number: 
(703) 681-8812, mailing address: Office of the Secretary of Defense for 
Health Affairs, Health Resources Management and Policy, 1200 Defense 
Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301-1200; email address: 
<a href="/cdn-cgi/l/email-protection#80ede5f2ecf9eeaeeae5eeebe9eef3aee3e9f6c0e8e5e1ecf4e8aeede9ec"><span class="__cf_email__" data-cfemail="dab7bfa8b6a3b4f4b0bfb4b1b3b4a9f4b9b3ac9ab2bfbbb6aeb2f4b7b3b6">[email&#160;protected]</span></a>.

SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The NDAA-23 also grants the Director of DHA 
discretionary authority to waive assessment of medical fees of non-
beneficiaries when the healthcare provided enhances the knowledge, 
skills, and abilities (KSAs) of healthcare providers, as determined by 
the Director of DHA. The DHA is implementing the amendments to 10 
U.S.C. 1079b enacted through the NDAA-23. By statute (Pub. L. 117-263, 
div. A, title VII, Sec.  716(c), Dec. 23, 2022, 136 Stat. 2661), the 
sliding fee scale and/or catastrophic fee waivers apply to bills for 
healthcare services provided at MTFs on or after June 21, 2023.

I. Background and Authority

    Title 10, United States Code (U.S.C.), section 1073d requires the 
DoD to maintain MTFs for the purposes of supporting the medical 
readiness of the armed forces and the readiness of deployable medical 
personnel. To maintain medical currency and bolster the KSAs of DoD 
healthcare providers, the DoD renders emergency, trauma, and other 
medical services to beneficiaries of the MHS which consist of service 
members and former service members, and their dependents. The MHS may 
provide healthcare services to other individuals who are not eligible 
beneficiaries, in certain circumstances, as authorized by law, and 
typically on a reimbursable basis (Pub. L. 114-328, 717(c), Dec. 23, 
2016, as amended (10 U.S.C. 1071 note); and Sec.  1074(c)).
    Regulations implementing DoD's authority under 10 U.S.C. 1095 and 
related provisions of law to compute reasonable charges for inpatient 
and ambulatory (outpatient) care provided by MTFs, including charges 
for pharmaceuticals, durable medical equipment, supplies, 
immunizations, injections, or other medications, are at 32 CFR part 
220, last updated on August 20, 2020 (55 FR 21742-21750). Medical 
billing is structured under three existing healthcare cost recovery 
programs: Third Party Collections (10 U.S.C. 1095); Medical Services 
Account (10 U.S.C. 1079b, 1085, and 1104); and Medical Affirmative 
Claims (42 U.S.C. 2651-2653). The rates used for billing are modeled 
after the rates published by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services. The rates are approved annually by the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)) and published on the DoD 
Comptroller's website at <a href="https://comptroller.defense.gov/Financial-Management/Reports/rates2023/">https://comptroller.defense.gov/Financial-Management/Reports/rates2023/</a>. Funds collected

[[Page 5304]]

through the healthcare cost recovery programs are used to enhance 
healthcare delivery at MTFs.
    In carrying out the DoD's healthcare cost recovery programs, 
charges and fees for care provided are assessed, as applicable, to 
civilian non-beneficiary patients who receive treatment at MTFs. When 
medical care is provided, such individuals become indebted to the 
United States. The DoD has authority under the Debt Collection 
Improvement Act of 1996 (DCIA) (Pub. L. 104-134) to compromise, or 
terminate the collection of, claims involving monetary indebtedness to 
the United States. The Federal Claims Collection Standards (FCCS) 
promulgated at 31 CFR parts 900 through 904, which implement the DCIA, 
require that Federal agencies aggressively collect all debts arising 
out of activities of that agency. Collection activities must be 
undertaken promptly with follow-up action taken as necessary. Although 
an individual's financial circumstances may be considered in applying 
the FCCS, the relevance of such information in determinations 
concerning debt compromise or termination concerns the likelihood of 
repayment or successful enforced collection within a reasonable period 
of time, rather than the impact on or financial harm to an individual 
that is consequential to being indebted.
    Title 10 U.S.C. 1079b, as amended by section 716 of NDAA-23, 
implements financial protections for certain individual civilian non-
beneficiaries.

II. Problem Being Addressed Through This Rulemaking

    Due to the high cost of healthcare in the United States and the 
mandate for Federal agencies to aggressively pursue collection of debts 
under FCCS, civilian non-beneficiaries who were provided emergency or 
trauma healthcare services in DoD MTFs have experienced financial harm 
after receiving substantial medical bills from MTFs. The DoD does not 
have authority to forgive or waive indebtedness for MTF charges outside 
of the FCCS and has not had authority to discount charges and fees for 
medical care, in contrast to for-profit and non-profit hospitals that 
offer various financial assistance policies. As a result, Congress 
wholly amended 10 U.S.C. 1079b via section 716 of NDAA-23 providing DoD 
with significant authority to protect patients from financial harm 
under the existing billing and collection laws. Section 716 directs DoD 
to apply a sliding fee and/or a catastrophic fee waiver when assessing 
fees and charges to non-beneficiaries. For non-beneficiaries with 
health insurance, Section 716 directs DoD to accept payments from 
health insurers as full payment and to not balance bill non-
beneficiaries except for copays, coinsurance, deductibles, nominal 
fees, and non-covered services. It also provides the Director of DHA 
conditional, discretionary authority to waive the assessment of fees 
that otherwise would be charged to non-beneficiaries when the 
healthcare provided enhances the KSAs of healthcare providers, as 
determined by the Director of DHA. The NDAA for FY 2017 (NDAA-17) 
authorizes provision of such care on a reimbursable basis to civilians 
who are not covered beneficiaries. Public Law 114-328, 717(c), Dec. 23, 
2016, as amended, 10 U.S.C. 1071 note.

III. Discussion of Comments and Changes

    The proposed rule titled ``Medical Billing for Healthcare Services 
Provided by Department of Defense Military Medical Treatment Facilities 
to Civilian Non-Beneficiaries'' was published in the Federal Register 
on October 1, 2024 (89 FR 79804-79815). Comments were accepted for 60 
days until December 2, 2024. A total of 12 comments were received of 
which eight indicated general support for the rule and four expressed 
various concerns. Please see a synopsis of the comments received, our 
responses to those comments, and clarifications being made to the 
regulations at 32 CFR part 220 as a result of the public comments.

1. General Support for the Rule

    Comment: The Department received eight public comments expressing 
support for the proposed rule and four expressing various concerns.
    Response: The Department values public input as an essential 
component of the rulemaking process. We extend our sincere thanks to 
everyone who submitted comments on the proposed rule. We are 
particularly grateful for the support expressed by the eight commenters 
who affirmed the rule's goals. We believe this rule represents a 
collaborative effort to strengthen financial protections for patients 
accessing the exceptional healthcare services offered within the MHS.

2. Simplifying the Application Process and Enhancing Patient 
Protections

    Comment: Four commenters expressed concern that the application 
process seemed too burdensome, specifically that there are too many 
forms to fill out and too much paperwork to gather as part of the 
application process. Some pointed out that it could be particularly 
difficult for people who are homeless, do not speak English well, or 
are dealing with other challenges. Commenters advocated that patients 
be protected from aggressive debt collection while they are trying to 
get their application processed. Recommendations included simplifying 
forms, streamlining income verification (including exploring Internal 
Revenue Service (IRS) collaboration and accepting alternative 
documentation), limiting supporting documents, providing clearer 
instructions and dedicated support staff, and translating materials 
into multiple languages.
    Response: We acknowledge the need for a simplified and accessible 
MHS MPWP process:
    <bullet> Clearer Communication: Section 220.12(e) of the final rule 
requires standardized language on all invoices, explaining the MHS MPWP 
in plain terms and directing patients to a dedicated website with 
detailed program information, frequently asked questions, and a fee 
calculator to help them estimate their potential savings.
    <bullet> Easier Income Verification: Section 220.12(k)(2)(iii) of 
the final rule clarifies that patients can use documents other than tax 
returns and pay stubs to prove their income, such as bank statements or 
Social Security benefit letters. While we appreciate the suggestion of 
accessing income data directly from the IRS, this may result in 
evaluating a patient's income based on outdated information. We will 
continue to assess the feasibility of this option in the future.
    <bullet> Protection During Application: Section 220.12(m) of the 
final rule states that DoD will suspend DoD collection actions against 
the patient (excluding processing of insurance claims) during the 
application review period.
    <bullet> Fresh Start After Approval: Section 220.12(j)(1) clarifies 
that we are also resetting the delinquency clock after a decision is 
made on the application. This means that approved applicants will have 
a new opportunity to manage their payments without the pressure of past 
delinquency.
    <bullet> Recalling Debt from Treasury: To prevent unnecessary 
hardship, the final rule mandates the recall of debts from the 
Department of the Treasury's Cross-Servicing Program upon approval of a 
discount or waiver, stopping further collection actions.
    <bullet> Flexible Payment Plans: We recognize the need for 
affordable payment options. The final rule guarantees flexible 
installment plans for up to 72 months, allowing patients to spread out 
their payments over a manageable timeframe.
    <bullet> Tax Implications of Waivers: We understand the concerns 
regarding the

[[Page 5305]]

potential tax implications of debt waivers. However, tax matters fall 
outside the jurisdiction of the Department.

3. Prioritizing Waivers, Adjusting the Sliding Scale, and Withholding 
Delinquent Accounts From Transfers to Treasury

    Comment: We heard strong support from four commenters for 
prioritizing the use of waivers to provide greater financial relief, 
including the use of preemptive waivers, especially for those with 
injuries similar to those seen in combat. Commenters also advocated for 
adjustments to the sliding scale and catastrophic cap fees; and one 
commenter requested that we not transfer delinquent accounts to 
Treasury, but rather that we hold onto them for an additional eight-
month period past delinquency.
    Response: We carefully considered this feedback:
    <bullet> Waiver Authority: While we will maintain the DHA 
Director's discretion to determine when a waiver is appropriate, the 
final rule makes it clear at Sec.  220.12(o) that after receiving a 
discount, patients may further apply for a potential waiver. The final 
rule clarifies at Sec.  220.12(o)(iv) that waivers will be considered 
in all cases where there is confirmation by a competent medical 
authority at the treating MTF that the care provided to the applicant 
enhanced the clinical readiness of military medical personnel. 
Additionally, we have clarified that waivers may be partial or full and 
are applicable to a remaining balance that has already been discounted 
by a sliding fee in order to minimize any tax implications for the 
patient. The phrase ``used sparingly'' has been deleted from the final 
rule.
    <bullet> Preemptive Waivers: Two commenters advocated for automatic 
or presumptive waivers for specific types of injuries, such as gunshot 
wounds or car accidents. We will not implement these because the 
training value of each case depends heavily on its unique 
circumstances, the experience level of the medical team, and the 
specific learning objectives. For example, a common fracture might 
provide valuable training for a new medic, while a complex, multi-
system trauma case could offer a significant learning opportunity for 
even the most experienced surgeons. Assessing whether a case adds KSAs 
in the context of battlefield equivalency value will be done on a case-
by-case basis by the treating facility's competent medical authority as 
stated at Sec.  220.12(o).
    <bullet> Sliding Scale: Four commenters recommended that we expand 
the income thresholds for the sliding scale discount. We carefully 
reviewed the recommendations and determined that the current structure 
strikes a reasonable balance between providing meaningful relief and 
ensuring the program's financial sustainability, allowing us to help as 
many patients as possible. However, we clarify at Sec.  220.12(l)(2) 
that applicants whose income is between 401 percent through 600 percent 
of the Federal Poverty Guidelines (FPGs) are eligible for catastrophic 
fee waivers. We are committed to closely monitoring the program's 
impact and will consider adjustments to the sliding scale in the future 
if data indicates that it is not adequately meeting the needs of our 
patients.
    <bullet> Withholding Delinquent Accounts From Transferring to 
Treasury: Four commenters requested that delinquent accounts not be 
transferred to the Treasury. However, per the Federal Claims Collection 
Standards, we are mandated to transfer debts that become delinquent 
more than 180 days. As stated at Sec.  220.12(r), individuals may still 
submit an application for the MHS MPWP after their account has been 
transferred to the Cross-Servicing Program (``Cross-Servicing'') of the 
Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service.

4. Clarifying Insurance Billing and Participating in Denials Management

    Comment: Three commenters suggested that we clarify our processes 
for billing insurance and two commenters suggested automatically 
adjusting Medicaid civilians' fees to their copays or to zero under the 
sliding scale and abstaining from charging Medicare patients.
    Response: We have carefully considered the comments:
    <bullet> Streamlined Insurance Processes and Denials: We have 
clarified at Sec.  220.12(h) of the final rule that MTFs will engage in 
standard denials management practices, including providing supporting 
documentation and participating in appeal processes, to facilitate the 
resolution of disputed claims.
    <bullet> Medicaid and Medicare Billing: DHA does not intentionally 
seek out Medicare or Medicaid patients. However, because some MTFs have 
arrangements with specific localities to accept trauma patients injured 
in close proximity to the MTF, sometimes Medicare and Medicaid 
beneficiaries are brought to the MTF for treatment. The DHA has an 
election agreement with Medicare as a non-participating provider. 
Medicare patients treated in MTFs are stabilized and transferred to a 
Medicare participating hospital. Medicare will pay the MTF for the 
costs associated with stabilization and transfer. Medicare patients are 
never balanced billed for care received in an MTF. Because MTFs, as 
Federal entities, are not licensed by the states, at present all MTFs, 
except one in Texas, are not allowed to participate in Medicaid. We did 
not make any changes to the rule, as Medicaid and Medicare billing are 
beyond the scope of what is needed to implement 10 U.S.C. 1079b. The 
sliding scale provides substantial reductions based on an individual's 
income inclusive of discounting a patient's bill to zero should their 
household income be below 100 percent of the FPGs.

5. Address Pre-Enactment Debt

    Comments: Three commenters advocated for relief of debts incurred 
prior to June 21, 2023, including those currently subject to Treasury 
offsets.
    Response: We recognize the financial challenges these debts may 
pose. While we are sympathetic to individuals with outstanding medical 
debt incurred prior to June 21, 2023, the statutory language included 
at section 716(c) of the NDAA-23 is clearly prospective. Although we 
cannot retroactively apply the MHS MPWP, patients can work with the DHA 
Debt Adjudication Office for debts that have not become delinquent. The 
DHA has limited authority to compromise debts under $100,000 if an 
applicant demonstrates an inability to pay under the FCCS. Once a debt 
has become delinquent, the FCCS requires that we transfer the debt to 
the Department of Treasury for collection. For delinquent debt, 
patients can work with debt management at the Department of Treasury to 
request that their debt be lowered (compromised). Patients should 
contact the Treasury's Cross-Servicing Program to discuss available 
options for financial relief.

IV. Other Applicable Authority

    Section 717 of NDAA-17 conditionally authorizes DoD to evaluate and 
treat civilian non-beneficiaries at MTFs if the evaluation and 
treatment is necessary to maintain medical readiness skills and 
competencies of healthcare providers. Section 717(c) mandates that DoD 
bill such individuals for the costs of such healthcare services 
provided. By amending 10 U.S.C. 1079b, section 716 of NDAA-23 has 
provided discretionary authority to waive an individual's 
responsibility to pay those statutorily mandated charges if the 
provision of care enhances the KSAs of healthcare

[[Page 5306]]

providers, as determined by the DHA. If, under 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b), DoD 
elects to waive charges it is otherwise statutorily required to collect 
from an individual, any resulting discharge of indebtedness may need to 
be reported to the IRS in accordance with the reporting requirements at 
26 U.S.C. 6050P. DoD may also be required to issue a Form 1099-C, 
``Cancellation of Debt'' (Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Control 
Number 1545-1424), available at <a href="https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f1099c.pdf">https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/f1099c.pdf</a>, to the patient in accordance with the same reporting 
requirements. This discharge of indebtedness could result in gross 
income being attributed to the patient under 26 U.S.C. 61. Authority 
provided by Sec.  1079b(c) to adjust or waive assessment of fees and 
charges for medical care will be exercised by applying criteria 
applicable to civilian non-beneficiaries, rather than by exercising 
discretion to discharge indebtedness with respect to non-beneficiaries. 
Consequently, to reduce avoidable gross income to a patient under 26 
U.S.C. 61, DoD will consider a waiver under 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b) of an 
individual's responsibility to pay charges only after any sliding scale 
discounts and catastrophic cap on charges have been applied.

V. Summary of Current Billing and Collection Processes Involving Non-
Beneficiaries

    For non-beneficiary medical encounters occurring prior to June 21, 
2023, an MTF processes a bill to either the patient, the patient's 
third-party insurance, or to another guarantor. The current legal 
framework to process non-beneficiary bills is established under 10 
U.S.C. 1079b (Procedures for Charging Fees to Civilians). Collection of 
medical debt resulting from medical bills is subject to the DCIA.
    Title 10 U.S.C. 1079b directs the Secretary of Defense to implement 
procedures by which a non-beneficiary will be billed. The ASD(HA) 
publishes medical rates packages that are updated annually. The ASD(HA) 
rates reflect the full cost to the Government of providing care to a 
non-beneficiary patient; the rates generally reflect the same amounts 
that DoD reimburses to civilian healthcare providers when care is 
rendered outside of an MTF to a beneficiary patient, and they are also 
the same rates that DoD uses to bill third-party health insurers (under 
10 U.S.C. 1095) when a beneficiary patient receives care in an MTF.
    A bill generated for care at an MTF must be paid in full, whether 
by the patient, medical insurer, or other guarantor. The full amount is 
pursued against the patient and/or the patient's guarantor. If the debt 
is not paid within 180 days of the due date (or an installment plan due 
date), the debt is transferred to the Cross-Servicing Program (``Cross-
Servicing'') of the Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal 
Service, for collection. Agencies may also refer eligible debts that 
are less than 180 days delinquent to the Cross-Servicing program.
    Under the current legal framework there is no authority to reduce 
the amount of a debt owed by a patient who received care at an MTF. 
There is an ability to compromise a balance that cannot be paid by the 
non-beneficiary. However, the FCCS, which governs compromises of debt, 
requires that a debtor reasonably demonstrate the inability to pay the 
debt balance, which entails evaluation of a debtor's current financial 
condition, and obtaining a credit report or other financial information 
in order to evaluate the debtor's assets, liabilities, income, and 
expenses.

VI. Changes With This Rulemaking

A. MHS MPWP

    Under 10 U.S.C. 1079b, as amended by NDAA-23, the DoD is required 
to apply a sliding scale and/or catastrophic fee waivers to medical 
invoices generated by MTFs in certain instances. The statute also gives 
the Director of DHA discretionary authority to waive charges mandated 
by section 717 of NDAA-17, when the care provided enhances the medical 
KSAs of MHS healthcare providers, as determined by the Director of DHA. 
Consequently, the DoD is implementing Sec.  1079b authorities with the 
objective of mitigating financial harm to civilian non-beneficiaries. 
The MHS MPWP will be applied uniformly to all civilian non-beneficiary 
patients who apply to the program. Applicable discounts will be based 
only on household income and family size. All patients will be eligible 
to apply for the MHS MPWP in order to mitigate financial harm. 
Applicants to the MHS MPWP whose income is less than 100 percent of the 
FPGs will automatically receive a 100 percent discount of their medical 
bill. Applicants with income between 101 and 400 percent of the FPGs 
will be eligible for a sliding scale discount; and applicants whose 
income is between 400 through 600 percent of the FPGs will be eligible 
for a catastrophic fee waiver.
    The MHS MPWP will involve a cascading, sequential process that 
begins with collecting health insurance information from all patients. 
For patients with health insurance, the patient must agree to allow DoD 
to file medical claims on the patient's behalf. Patients with health 
insurance who do not consent to allowing DoD to file insurance claims 
on their behalf will not be eligible for the MHS MPWP. By allowing DoD 
to file insurance claims on the patient's behalf, the DoD will be 
assured that insurance remittances and Explanation of Benefits (EOB) 
documents are properly sent to the DoD. This will enable the DoD to 
adjust balances on the patient's account inclusive of the amount paid 
by the insurance carrier, amounts disallowed, and amounts that are the 
patient's responsibility as determined by the insurance carrier (i.e., 
copays, coinsurance, deductibles, nominal fees and non-covered 
services). DoD MTFs will participate in claims disputes through 
standard denials management practices. Once the patient's account is 
properly adjusted in accordance with the EOB, the DoD will bill insured 
patients only for portions of the bill that are their responsibility. 
For patients without health insurance, DoD will bill the patient.
    Patients who are uninsured, underinsured and/or who have a 
remaining balance for copay, coinsurance, deductible, nominal fee, or 
non-covered services may apply to the MHS MPWP for application of the 
sliding scale discounts and catastrophic fee waivers.
    Patients unable to pay the remaining balance after the application 
of the sliding scale and catastrophic fee waivers may also apply for a 
waiver of their medical fees under 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b), by submitting a 
completed DD Form 3201-1, ``Request for Medical Debt Waiver, Military 
Health System Modified Payment and Waiver Program'' (<a href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/dd3000_3499/">https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/dd3000_3499/</a>). Waivers may be approved 
at the discretion of the DHA Director when the care rendered to the 
patient enhanced the KSAs of the healthcare providers as confirmed by 
competent medical authority at the treating MTFs on the DD Form 3201-
1A. Waivers may be partial or full and applied to already waivered 
fees. KSAs are a set of clinical skill requirements a provider needs in 
order to provide medical care/treatment in the deployed environment. 
Waivers may result in financial reporting to the IRS and issuance of an 
IRS Form 1099-C to the patient. Generally, waivers may be granted if: 
(a) The patient has completed a DD Form 2569, ``Third Party Collection 
Program/Medical Services Account/Other Health Insurance'' (OMB Control 
Number 0720-0055), available

[[Page 5307]]

at <a href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/dd2500_2999/">https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/dd2500_2999/</a>;
    (b) the patient has submitted a completed application for the MHS 
MPWP via the DD Form 3201 and any and all appropriate discounts have 
been applied; and
    (c) DHA competent medical authority confirms in writing on the DD 
Form 3201-1A that the care provided to the patient enhanced the KSAs of 
the DoD healthcare provider.
    (d) If the above conditions are met, the Director of DHA may 
exercise discretionary authority to waive the medical invoice.

B. Collection of Health Insurance Information

    All patients receiving healthcare services at a DoD MTF are asked 
to complete a DD Form 2569 to collect health insurance information 
along with the patients' consent for the DoD to file a claim on their 
behalf. The form advises patients that their ``records may be disclosed 
outside of DoD to healthcare clearinghouses, commercial insurance 
providers, and other third parties in order to collect amounts owed to 
the Department of Defense.''

C. Billing Insurance

    For non-beneficiaries with health insurance who complete the DD 
Form 2569, the DHA will bill the non-beneficiary's health insurance and 
accept remittances. When payment or an EOB is received from the 
insurance company, the DoD will not bill the patient except for copays, 
coinsurance, deductibles, nominal fees, and amounts for non-covered 
services. The DoD will suspend collection against the patient for up to 
120 days to allow the patient's insurance to process the claim. The DoD 
will not bill the patient until a determination on payment and/or an 
EOB is received from the insurance company, or 120 days has lapsed, 
whichever comes first. If the DoD receives an insurance remittance 
after 120 days have elapsed, the DoD will deposit the check, adjust the 
patient's account in accordance with the EOB, and issue the patient a 
refund for overpayments, if any have been received. The DoD will ensure 
that medical invoices sent to the patient reflect information about the 
MHS MPWP, including instructions for applying to the program. The DHA 
will support claims appeals through standard MTF denials management 
processes.

D. Delinquent Accounts

    Delinquent accounts will be processed in accordance with the DCIA 
as implemented by the FCCS.

E. Applications for MHS MPWP Received for Delinquent Accounts 
Transferred to the Department of the Treasury

    Individuals may still submit an application for the MHS MPWP even 
if their account has been transferred to Cross-Servicing; however, any 
reductions to the medical invoice from the MHS MPWP may be subject to 
interest, penalties, and costs. For patients who apply and are eligible 
for a reduction under the MHS MPWP, the DoD will recall the debt from 
Cross-Servicing. For patients who apply and are ineligible for a 
reduction under the MHS MPWP, the debt will remain at Cross-Servicing. 
Patients may request reconsideration for the MHS MPWP when their 
financial circumstances appear to have significantly changed.

F. Income Verification and Collection of Income Information

    Required MHS MPWP application documentation. Patients who desire to 
apply for the MHS MPWP must do so by completing a DD Form 3201, 
``Application for Military Health System Modified Payment and Waiver 
Program'' (OMB Control Number PENDING), available at <a href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/dd3000_3499/">https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/dd3000_3499/</a>, and submitting the 
requisite documents. All DoD patient invoices will include a 
description of the documents that patients must submit together with DD 
Form 3201 in order to demonstrate their eligibility for the MHS MPWP. 
To demonstrate eligibility for a sliding fee/catastrophic fee waiver, 
the patient must first complete a DD Form 2569 (even in cases where the 
patient possesses no health insurance). Patients must also attach a 
copy of their most recent filed Federal income tax return and the 
patient's (or guarantor's if the patient is a minor) last two pay 
stubs. Patients who did not file a Federal income tax return for the 
preceding year must certify that they did not file an income tax return 
on the DD Form 3201 (a section is provided directly on the application 
form). Additionally, when the patient has no verifiable income, the 
patient must provide a certification to that effect on the DD Form 
3201. For this purpose, a section is provided directly on the 
application form. The last two pay stubs or disability check stubs may 
be used if no Federal income tax return is provided in conjunction with 
the patient's certification of annual income on the DD Form 3201 to 
determine the patient's income. Finally, when the patient has certified 
to having no verifiable income and has neither a tax return nor pay 
stubs, other information may be used to validate the patient's lack of 
income including, but not limited to, the last two bank statements 
(savings and checking), or a Social Security benefits letter.
    For patients with health insurance, the patient must agree to allow 
DoD to file medical claims on the patient's behalf.

G. Application for MHS MPWP Discounts and Waivers

    Consideration for sliding scale and catastrophic fee waivers 
requires evaluation of the patient's household income. To receive 
consideration for the sliding fee discount or catastrophic fee waiver, 
or to be considered for a full waiver of fees under 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b), 
the patient must apply to the MHS MPWP after receiving the MTF medical 
invoice by completing and submitting the DD Form 3201 (OMB Control 
Number PENDING). Applications can be made by: (1) patients with a 
remaining balance after insurance has been billed by the DoD and the 
insurance remittance and/or EOB has been received by the DoD; (2) by 
patients without insurance who have a balance; and (3) by patients with 
a remaining balance after recovery from tortfeasors is made. 
Application instructions will be printed on the DoD invoice. Applicants 
to the MHS MPWP will be notified of the status of their application via 
the following methods: (1) For approved applications, the DoD will 
issue to the patient a modified medical invoice reflecting the balance 
due after applying the sliding fee and/or catastrophic fee waiver; (2) 
for disapproved applications, the DoD will issue a letter reflecting 
the reason why the application was disapproved. The letter will inform 
the patient of the right to reapply should the patient's financial 
circumstances change.

H. Sliding Fee Discount

    Applicants to the MHS MPWP will first be considered for a sliding 
fee discount, and then for a catastrophic fee waiver. The threshold for 
the sliding fee discount will be set to a 100 percent medical bill 
discount and no nominal fee for applicants whose annual household 
income is at or below 100 percent of the applicable year's FPGs; and a 
100 percent medical bill discount plus a stratified nominal fee for 
applicants whose annual household income is greater than 100 percent 
and

[[Page 5308]]

up to 400 percent of the applicable year's FPGs. The ASD(HA) may 
periodically adjust the threshold limits by issuing policy to be 
published on the DoD Reimbursement Rates website (available at <a href="https://comptroller.defense.gov/Financial-Management/Reports/">https://comptroller.defense.gov/Financial-Management/Reports/</a>). Stratified 
nominal fees are generally established in a manner that is equitable 
with what military retirees enrolled in the TRICARE program would be 
required to pay in the private sector for comparable services. The 
ASD(HA) will annually set the stratified nominal fees for outpatient 
and inpatient care and may periodically adjust the nominal fee by 
issuing policy to be published on the DoD Reimbursement Rates website. 
The initial nominal stratified fees are as follows:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Household income falls within the
 below Federal poverty guidelines     Inpatient fee      Outpatient fee
------------------------------------------------------------------------
0%-100%...........................                   $0
                                   -------------------------------------
101%-120%.........................                750                 50
121%-140%.........................              1,250                 50
141%-160%.........................              2,000                 50
161%-180%.........................              3,000                 50
181%-200%.........................              4,000                 50
201%-220%.........................              5,000                 50
221%-240%.........................              6,000                 50
241%-260%.........................              7,000                 50
261%-280%.........................              8,000                 50
281%-300%.........................              9,000                 50
301%-320%.........................             10,000                 50
321%-340%.........................             11,000                 50
341%-360%.........................             12,000                 50
361%-380%.........................             13,000                 50
381%-400%.........................             14,000                 50
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    Applicants with annual household income of greater than 400 percent 
of the applicable year's FPGs will not be eligible for a sliding fee 
discount but may be eligible for a catastrophic fee waiver if their 
household income does not exceed 600 percent.

I. Catastrophic Fee Waiver

    The catastrophic fee waiver applies to applicants whose household 
income is between 401 percent and 600 percent of the FPGs and is based 
on a formula for adjusting the medical invoice over a 36-month period. 
The catastrophic fee waiver consists of limiting the patient's medical 
bill to a maximum percentage of the patient's monthly household income 
multiplied by 36 months and waiving the balance of the medical bill 
that exceeds the calculation. If the calculation yields an amount 
greater than the original medical bill, then the catastrophic fee 
waiver will not be applicable. The maximum percentage will be set to 5 
percent of the patient's monthly household income multiplied by 36 
months. The ASD(HA) will annually set the catastrophic fee thresholds 
by issuing policy to be published on the DoD Reimbursement Rates 
website.

J. Collection in Installments

    As part of the implementation of the sliding fee and catastrophic 
fee protections to prevent severe financial harm, patients eligible for 
the MHS MPWP may have amounts collected in installments for a term not 
to exceed 72 months. Additionally, patients may request to pay their 
balance by lump sum. The minimum amount that may be paid by installment 
per month is $25.

K. Alternative Authority for Waiver of Medical Fees Based on KSA 
Enhancement

    In accordance with 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b), the Director of DHA may 
issue a partial or full waiver of already discounted fees for care 
provided to civilian non-beneficiaries if determined by the Director of 
DHA to be appropriate. Accordingly, consideration of a waiver of 
medical fees will occur on a case-by-case basis and only after 
application approval for the MHS MPWP has occurred and competent 
medical authority at the MTF that treated the patient confirms (on the 
DD Form 3201-1A) that the care provided to the patient enhanced 
provider KSAs. The DD Form 3201-1A is strictly for internal use and is 
not subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act (PRA). A waiver under 10 
U.S.C. 1079b(b) of $600 or more will result in reporting to the IRS and 
issuance of a Form 1099-C to the non-beneficiary for the amount waived. 
All patient invoices will include a statement that the patient may 
apply for a waiver based on 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b) and Sec.  220.12(n) and 
include information on how to submit a waiver request.

L. Applicability of the MHS MPWP to Tortfeasors and Third-Party Payers

    No discount or waiver of fees under 10 U.S.C. 1079b shall be 
interpreted to be applicable to tortfeasors under the Federal Medical 
Care Recovery Act (FMCRA), 42 U.S.C. 2651 or to third-party payers 
under 10 U.S.C. 1095. Patients treated at DoD MTFs are responsible to 
identify on the DD Form 3201 whether their injury/disease was caused by 
a third party. To be eligible to obtain any discounts or waivers under 
the MHS MPWP, the patient must consent and agree to cooperate with the 
United States to recover the cost of care against any liable tortfeasor 
or insurance under the FMCRA. Patients who have a remaining balance 
after recoveries from third-party tortfeasors or their insurers, may 
apply for relief of any remaining medical debt or may be refunded 
amounts already paid toward their medical debt if no balance is owed.

VII. Expected Impact of This Rulemaking

    DoD anticipates that section 716 of the NDAA-23 will substantially 
mitigate serious financial harm to non-beneficiaries through 
application of a sliding fee and/or a catastrophic fee waiver to 
medical invoices generated by MTFs. DoD anticipates that the Director 
of DHA's discretionary authority to waive fees for non-beneficiaries 
will also contribute to reducing severe financial harm. The anticipated 
costs for the MHS MPWP include only the time required for a patient's 
application to be completed (see Paperwork Reduction Act section of 
this preamble) and reviewed. This includes time required for civilian 
non-beneficiary patients to complete the associated DD Form 3201 
declaring their income, DoD to receive

[[Page 5309]]

and assess the application, followed by the determination of the 
eligibility for a sliding scale discount, catastrophic fee waiver, or 
waiver under 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b) by the Director of DHA, and the 
response time for the decision. The total estimated time is less than 
90 calendar days. In addition, costs may be incurred for patients who 
desire to apply for a waiver of their medical debt (via a DD Form 3201-
1) after they have been approved for the MHS MPWP. Lastly, costs may be 
incurred by DHA staff who will be responsible for completing and 
processing the DD Form 3201-1A, which will be used by competent medical 
authority to confirm that care provided to civilian non-beneficiaries 
enhanced provider KSAs.
    (1) Government Burden Related to the DD Form 3201, ``Application 
for Military Health System Modified Payment and Waiver Program'':
[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR06FE26.012

    (2) Government Burden Related to the DD Form 3201-1, ``Request for 
a Medical Debt Waiver, Military Health System Modified Payment and 
Waiver Program'':

[[Page 5310]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR06FE26.013

    (3) Government Burden Related to the DD Form 3201-1A, ``MHS 
Modified Payment and Waiver Program (MPWP) Medical Skills Sustainment 
Scoring Worksheet'':
    (4) Note: The DD Form 3201-1A is strictly for internal use and is 
not subject to the PRA.
[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR06FE26.014


[[Page 5311]]



VIII. Regulatory Compliance Analysis

A. Executive Order 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review,'' and 
Executive Order 13563, ``Improving Regulation and Regulatory Review''

    Executive Order 12866 and Executive Order 13563 direct agencies to 
assess all costs, benefits and available regulatory alternatives and, 
if regulation is necessary, to select regulatory approaches that 
maximize net benefits (including potential economic, environmental, 
public health, safety effects, distributive impacts, and equity). These 
Executive Orders emphasize the importance of quantifying both costs and 
benefits, of reducing costs, of harmonizing rules, and of promoting 
flexibility. This final rule has been designated significant, under 
section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866.

B. Executive Order 14192, ``Unleashing Prosperity Through 
Deregulation''

    Executive Order 14192 establishes a regulatory cap for Fiscal Year 
2025 and requires agencies to identify 10 existing regulations to be 
repealed unless the regulation meets certain exemptions. This final 
rule is not an Executive Order 14192 regulatory action under OMB M-25-
20, ``Guidance Implementing Section 3 of Executive Order 14192,'' 
because it does not impose any more than de minimis regulatory costs.

C. Congressional Review Act (5 U.S.C. 801 et seq.)

    Pursuant to Subtitle E of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement 
Fairness Act of 1996 (also known as the Congressional Review Act), 
OMB's Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs has determined that 
this final rule does not meet the criteria set forth in 5 U.S.C. 
804(2).

D. Public Law 96-354, ``Regulatory Flexibility Act'' (5 U.S.C. 601)

    The ASD(HA) certified that this final rule is not subject to the 
Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601) because it would not, if 
promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number 
of small entities. The Regulatory Flexibility Act aims at taking into 
account the impact of regulations on small businesses, small 
organizations, small governmental jurisdictions, and small entities. 
More specifically, the law states ``. . . agencies shall endeavor . . . 
to fit regulatory and informational requirements to the scale of the 
business, organizations, and governmental jurisdictions subject to 
regulation.'' (Pub. L. 96-354, September 19, 1980; section 2 (b)) The 
amendments to 32 CFR part 220 do not impact the small entities 
referenced in this paragraph. Therefore, the Regulatory Flexibility 
Act, as amended, does not require us to prepare a regulatory 
flexibility analysis.

E. Section 202, Public Law 104-4, ``Unfunded Mandates Reform Act''

    Section 202 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 
1532) requires agencies to assess anticipated costs and benefits before 
issuing any rule whose mandates require spending in any 1 year of $100 
million in 1995 dollars, updated annually for inflation. In 2025, that 
threshold is approximately $211 million. This final rule will not 
mandate any requirements for State, local, or tribal governments, and 
will not affect private sector costs. An unfunded mandate occurs when a 
State, local, or tribal government must perform certain actions or 
offer certain programs but does not receive any Federal funds to make 
it happen. The Federal Government passes legislation requiring the 
program, but the law does not include any funding. This final rule will 
only affect a very narrow category of the public and it will not impact 
State, local, or tribal governments. Additionally, it will not affect 
private sector costs as all proposed actions would be completed by 
Federal agencies.

G. Public Law 96-511, ``Paperwork Reduction Act'' (44 U.S.C. Chapter 
35)

    Section 220.12 of this final rule contains information collection 
requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 
chapter 35), DoD submitted an information clearance package to the OMB 
for review (Control Number 0720-0083). The implementation of the MHS 
MPWP requires the collection of information from applicants to 
determine eligibility for discounts and waivers, as authorized by 10 
U.S.C. 1079b. This information collection has been submitted to and is 
pending review by OMB in accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act 
(44 U.S.C. chapter 35). OMB has received the revised collection of 
information. OMB's receipt of the revised collection of information is 
not an approval to conduct or sponsor an information collection under 
the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. In accordance with 5 CFR 1320, the 
revised collection of information associated with this rulemaking is 
not approved by OMB at this time. OMB's approval of the revised 
collection of information will occur within 30 days after the Final 
rulemaking publishes. If OMB does not approve the new collection of 
information as requested, DoD will immediately remove the provision 
containing a new collection of information or take such other action as 
is directed by OMB. Please note that the DD Form 3201-1A is strictly 
for internal use and is not subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
    In response to DoD's invitation in the proposed rule to comment on 
any potential paperwork burden associated with this rule, the following 
comments were received.
    Comment: Two commenters expressed concern that the MHS MPWP 
application process would be overly burdensome for both patients and 
administrative staff. They criticized the complexity of the required 
forms and procedures, citing multiple forms and excessive detail as 
barriers to successful navigation, especially for patients with limited 
resources or language access. The required documentation, such as tax 
returns and pay stubs, was considered onerous and potentially 
prohibitive for vulnerable populations like the homeless, transient, 
and recently unemployed.
    Response: We acknowledge the concerns raised about the potential 
complexity of the MHS MPWP application process and are committed to 
making it as simple and accessible as possible. The Department is 
considering enabling online applications but notes financial and 
logistical challenges with implementation. The final rule, Sec.  
220.12(k)(2)(iii), addresses alternative forms of income verification 
to ease the burden on patients.
    (1) Respondent Burden Related to DD Form 3201, ``Application for 
Military Health System Modified Payment and Waiver Program.'' This is a 
new collection. Using the information collected on the form, DoD 
medical billing offices will determine whether the patient is eligible 
for the medical discount/waiver program. If the patient is eligible, 
the billing office will generate an adjusted medical bill and send it 
to the patient. If the patient is not eligible, the billing office will 
send written correspondence to the patient, informing them that they 
are not eligible for the discount program and of their right to reapply 
should their financial circumstances change. Processing of the 
application will be annotated on the last page of the application. The 
application will be filed in the billing office's official records.

[[Page 5312]]

[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR06FE26.015

    (2) Respondent Burden Related to DD Form 3201-1, ``Request for 
Waiver of Medical Debt, Military Health System Modified Payment and 
Waiver Program.'' This is a new collection. The 10 U.S.C. 1079b statute 
grants the Director of the Defense Health Agency discretionary 
authority to grant waivers to medical bills in certain instances. 
Accordingly, the DD Form 3201-1 may be used by non-beneficiary patients 
to apply for a waiver. For patients who are approved for waivers (not 
discounts) under the Director of the Defense Health Agency's 
discretionary authority, the waived amount, along with the patient's 
SSN and address, will be relayed to the IRS.
[GRAPHIC] [TIFF OMITTED] TR06FE26.016

H. Executive Order 13132, ``Federalism''

    Executive Order 13132 establishes certain requirements that an 
agency must meet when it promulgates a rule that imposes substantial 
direct requirement costs on State and local Governments, preempts State 
law, or otherwise has federalism implications. This final rule will not 
have a substantial effect on State and local Governments.

I. Executive Order 13175, ``Consultation and Coordination With Indian 
Tribal Governments''

    Executive Order 13175 establishes certain requirements that an 
agency must meet when it promulgates a rule

[[Page 5313]]

that imposes substantial direct compliance costs on one or more Indian 
Tribes, preempts Tribal law, or effects the distribution of power and 
responsibilities between the Federal Government and Indian Tribes. This 
final rule will not have a substantial effect on Indian Tribal 
Governments.

List of Subjects in 32 CFR Part 220

    Accounts receivable, Civilian medical debt, Claims, Health care, 
Health insurance, Medical billing, Medical debt, Medical debt waiver, 
Military medical treatment facilities, Military personnel, and Third 
party collections.

    Accordingly, the DoD amends 32 CFR part 220 to read as follows:

PART 220--MEDICAL BILLING FOR HEALTHCARE SERVICES PROVIDED BY 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES TO 
CIVILIAN NON-BENEFICIARIES

0
1. The authority citation for part 220 is revised to read as follows:


    Authority:  5 U.S.C. 301; 10 U.S.C. 1095, 1097b(b), 1079b; 31 
U.S.C. 3711, 3717; and 42 U.S.C. 2651.

0
2. The part heading is revised to read as set forth above.

0
3. Add Sec.  220.12 to read as follows:


Sec.  220.12  Medical billing for healthcare services provided by DoD 
Military Medical Treatment Facilities to civilian non-beneficiaries.

    (a) Applicability. (1) This section applies to all persons who 
receive reimbursable care in a military medical treatment facility 
(MTF) on or after June 21, 2023, and who are not covered beneficiaries 
of the Department of Defense (DoD) as defined in Sec.  220.14, other 
than persons who receive care in an MTF pursuant to an agreement 
between the United States and a foreign government or other entity.
    (2) This section does not apply to third persons (or their 
insurers) with a tort liability under the Federal Medical Care Recovery 
Act (FMCRA) (42 U.S.C. 2651) or third-party payers under 10 U.S.C. 
1095. The discounts and waivers implemented by this section may not be 
used to reduce the value of the care and treatment that is recoverable 
from those third persons (or their insurers) under the FMCRA or 10 
U.S.C. 1095.
    (b) Definitions. (1) Military Health System (MHS) Modified Payment 
and Waiver Program (MPWP). The MHS MPWP is a DoD program to implement 
an enacted Fiscal Year 2023 National Defense Authorization Act (NDAA-
23) amendment to section 1079b of title 10, United States Code 
(U.S.C.). Section 716 of the NDAA-23 amended 10 U.S.C. 1079b to 
require, inter alia, the Director of the Defense Health Agency (DHA) to 
reduce fees that would otherwise be charged to civilian non-
beneficiaries for medical care according to a sliding scale and to 
implement a catastrophic fee waiver to prevent severe financial harm. 
It also granted the Director of the DHA with discretionary authority to 
issue waivers of fees for medical care if the provision of such care 
enhances the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) of healthcare 
providers.
    (2) Covered payer. A third-party payer or other insurance, medical 
service, or health plan.
    (3) Covered by a covered payer. A medical item or service is deemed 
to be covered by a covered payer when:
    (i) The patient possesses health insurance that is in effect on the 
date(s) that the item or service was provided;
    (ii) The health insurance plan provides coverage for the geographic 
area where the care was delivered;
    (iii) The care provided to the patient is an item or service 
covered by the terms of the insurance plan, and;
    (iv) The health insurance plan provides coverage for care rendered 
in a U.S. Government/DoD facility;
    (v) The insurer agrees to pay the facility directly;
    (vi) The insurer agrees to provide the facility with an Explanation 
of Benefits (EOB) that details how the insurer processed the claims 
according to the insurance plan; and
    (vii) The patient authorizes the DoD to file insurance claims 
against the insurance policy.
    (4) Non-covered item or service. A medical item or service that is 
not covered by the terms of the insurance plan.
    (5) Third-party payer and insurance, medical service, or health 
plan have the meaning given those terms in 10 U.S.C. 1095(h).
    (6) Knowledges, Skills, and Abilities (KSAs). KSAs are a set of 
clinical skill requirements that a healthcare provider needs in order 
to provide medical care or treatment in the deployed environment. The 
extent to which a patient's care enhances KSAs will be determined via 
the DD Form 3201-1A by competent medical authority at the treating MTF.
    (7) Reasonable value of medical care. Reasonable value of medical 
care is defined in Sec.  220.8. The reasonable value of medical care is 
based on the amount billed by the MTF before application of any sliding 
scale discount, catastrophic fee waiver, or other discount or waiver 
under this section.
    (c) Notifications concerning MHS MPWP. The Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Health Affairs (ASD(HA)) will maintain a public website 
containing information about the MHS MPWP, applicable forms (with links 
to the forms), and a fee discount calculator. The DoD will notify non-
beneficiary patients of the availability of the MHS MPWP. Information 
about the MHS MPWP will be posted in MTFs (e.g., in waiting rooms and 
information desks) and included in DoD patient invoices.
    (d) Requirement to complete a DD Form 2569. MTFs will present the 
DD Form 2569, ``Third Party Collection Program/Medical Services 
Account/Other Health Insurance,'' to all patients. It will also be 
available at <a href="https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/dd2500_2999/">https://www.esd.whs.mil/Directives/forms/dd2500_2999/</a>. All 
patients (regardless of insurance status) must complete the DD Form 
2569.
    (1) Before applying for the MHS MPWP, all patients (regardless of 
health insurance status) must fully complete (including by signing) the 
DD Form 2569 and ensure that a current and accurate DD Form 2569 is on 
file with the applicable MTF. Successful completion of these steps is a 
condition of eligibility for the MHS MPWP.
    (2) For patients with health insurance, the DoD will file insurance 
claims on behalf of the patient. Patients with health insurance who do 
not consent to allowing the DoD to file health insurance claims on 
their behalf will not be eligible for the MHS MPWP (inclusive of the 
discount and waiver portions).
    (3) The DoD may use a completed DD Form 2569 for multiple episodes 
of care. Unless a DD Form 2569 completed within the preceding 12 months 
for the patient is available, the DoD will solicit an updated DD Form 
2569 from patients who receive a subsequent episode of care from the 
MTF. However, the lack of an updated form will not preclude the DoD 
from filing additional claims against encounters for the patient.
    (e) Notifications on medical invoices. In addition to any 
notifications otherwise already required by law, regulation, or DoD 
policy, all DoD invoices will notify patients that-
    (1) Patients must consent to DoD filing insurance claims on their 
behalf to be eligible for the MHS MPWP;
    (2) The DoD will suspend fee assessment and patient billing actions 
against the debtor for up to 120 days while the DoD is pursuing an 
insurance claim or claim against a third-party payer;
    (3) For patients who are covered by a covered payer, the DoD will 
only bill

[[Page 5314]]

the patient for the insurer-assigned copays, coinsurance, deductibles, 
nominal fees, and non-covered services;
    (4) The patient demonstrates potential eligibility for the MHS MPWP 
fee discounts and catastrophic fee waivers by completing and submitting 
DD Form 2569 and DD Form 3201, which may result in a discount of their 
medical invoice after pursuit or recovery of claims against third party 
payers (instructions for demonstrating eligibility, including deadline, 
will also be included);
    (5) In addition to sliding fee discounts and catastrophic fee 
waivers, patients may request a waiver under 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b) by 
submitting a DD Form 3201-1, ``Request for Medical Debt Waiver, 
Military Health System Modified Payment and Waiver Program.'' Patients 
may be considered for a partial or full waiver if they previously 
applied to and were approved for the MHS MPWP discount program, and it 
did not sufficiently mitigate financial harm and if the applicable care 
provided is determined to enhance the KSAs of DoD healthcare providers, 
as confirmed by competent medical authority competent medical authority 
at the MTF that provided the care. Confirmation will be done by the 
competent medical authority on the DD Form 3201-1A. Waivers under 10 
U.S.C. 1079b(b) may result in information reporting to the Internal 
Revenue Service and issuance of a Form 1099-C, Cancellation of Debt. 
The waived amount(s) may constitute gross income to the patient under 
26 U.S.C. 61;
    (6) If fees or charges (including those reduced under the MHS MPWP) 
become delinquent due to non-payment, the DoD will establish a debt for 
the delinquent amount and commence efforts to collect the established 
debt, which may include transfer to the Department of the Treasury in 
accordance with applicable authority; and
    (7) That invoices issued after reduction or waiver of charges under 
the MHS MPWP will reflect the date by which an unpaid account will 
become delinquent.
    (f) DoD medical billing rates. Annually, the ASD(HA) publishes the 
rates that DoD uses for medical billing. Except for reasons listed in 
Sec.  220.8(f) or (g) of this part, the DoD rate will be used for all 
non-beneficiary billing, including billing to either the insurer or 
patient.
    (g) For non-covered items or services. In any instance where an 
item or service is not covered by a covered payer, the DoD will bill 
the patient for the full amount of the service.
    (h) For patients who are potentially covered by a covered payer. In 
any instance where a patient submits a DD Form 2569 that indicates that 
the patient possesses valid health insurance, the DoD will suspend any 
collections against the patient to allow time for the claim remittance 
to be processed by the insurer and for a valid EOB to be received, or 
until 120 days have passed since filing for payment from the insurance 
company, whichever comes first. Upon receipt of an EOB, the DoD will 
bill the patient only for those amounts that are designated by the 
insurance company as a copay, coinsurance, deductible, nominal fee, or 
non-covered service. If insurance remittance and an EOB are not 
received within 120 days of filing of a claim, the DoD will deem the 
item or service to be a non-covered service. If insurance remittance 
and an EOB are received after 120 days have elapsed, the DoD will 
deposit the remittance and adjust the patient's account accordingly. 
The DoD will issue to the patient a revised medical invoice reflecting 
updated balances. MTFs will engage in standard denials management 
practices, including providing supporting documentation and 
participating in appeal processes, to facilitate the resolution of 
disputed claims.
    (i) Actions when an insurance payment and/or EOB is received. When 
the DoD receives an insurance payment and/or an EOB, the DoD will post 
all payments and adjustments for those items or services that are 
deemed as covered by a covered payer against the bill in the manner 
prescribed by the EOB. The DoD will bill the patient for any remaining 
copays, co-insurance, deductibles, nominal fees and non-covered 
services.
    (j) Application for the MHS MPWP (DD Form 3201). All DoD invoices 
generated for non-covered beneficiaries will include a statement that 
all patients applying for the MHS MPWP must complete DD Form 3201 and 
must include instructions on how to apply (i.e., the deadline and where 
to submit the application). Processing of the application will be 
logged on the last page of the DD Form 3201. Applicants to the MHS MPWP 
will be notified of the status of their application via the following 
methods:
    (1) For approved applications, the DoD will issue to the patient a 
modified medical invoice reflecting the adjusted balance due after 
applying the sliding fee and/or catastrophic fee waiver and including a 
revised (reset) payment due date. The invoice modified to reflect fee 
adjustments or waiver under the MHS MPWP will include notification of 
the requirement to transfer delinquent debts to the Department of the 
Treasury if, after any modification under the MHS MPWP, an unpaid 
invoice becomes delinquent.
    (2) For disapproved applications, the DoD will issue a letter 
reflecting the reason why the application was disapproved. The letter 
will inform the patient of their right to reapply should their 
financial circumstances change.
    (k) Requirements to apply to the MHS MPWP. (1) To apply to the MHS 
MPWP all patients must:
    (i) Complete a DD Form 2569 (even in cases where the patient 
possesses no health insurance). Insurance remittances must be applied 
before the patient can be considered for the MHS MPWP.
    (ii) Complete a DD Form 3201, ``Application for Military Health 
System Modified Payment and Waiver Program.''
    (iii) Attach a copy of the patient's (or guarantor's if the patient 
is a minor) most recently filed Federal Income Tax Return to the DD 
Form 3201.
    (iv) Attach a copy of the patient's (or guarantor's if the patient 
is a minor) last two pay stubs.
    (v) Indicate whether their injury/disease was caused by a third 
party and provide explanatory information.
    (2) Patients applying for the MHS MPWP are required to certify 
whether or not they filed a Federal Income Tax Return for the preceding 
year.
    (i) If the patient did not file a Federal Income Tax Return for the 
preceding year, the patient must certify this in the space provided on 
the DD Form 3201.
    (ii) If the patient has no verifiable income, the patient must 
certify this and provide a certification of their current annual income 
amount in the space provided on the DD Form 3201.
    (iii) When the patient has certified to having no verifiable income 
and has neither a tax return nor pay stubs, other information may be 
used to validate the patient's lack of income including, but not 
limited to, the last two bank statements (savings and checking), or a 
Social Security benefits letter verifying that no benefits are being 
received.
    (iv) If the patient believes that hospitalization/care occurred as 
the result of an action for which another party may be responsible, 
then to be eligible for the MHS MPWP, the patient must agree to 
cooperate and assist the United States to recover the cost of care from 
said party in the space provided on the DD Form 3201.
    (l) Basis to assign a Sliding Fee Discount/Catastrophic Fee 
Waiver--(1) MHS Discount Calculator. Once a year, the ASD(HA) will 
promulgate an MHS Discount Calculator. The initial

[[Page 5315]]

calculator will assign a 100 percent sliding fee discount and no 
stratified nominal fee to applicants to the MHS MPWP whose annual 
household income is at or below 100 percent of the applicable year's 
Federal Poverty Guidelines (FPGs); and a 100 percent sliding fee 
discount plus a stratified nominal fee to applicants whose annual 
household income is greater than 100 percent and at or below 400 
percent of the FPGs current at the time of application. Applicants with 
annual household income of greater than 400 percent of the applicable 
year's FPGs will not be eligible for a sliding fee discount; but may be 
eligible for a catastrophic fee waiver.
    (2) Catastrophic Fee Waiver. For applicants who exceed the 400 
percent threshold but whose household income is at or below 600 percent 
of the FPGs, the calculator will assign an ASD(HA)-approved maximum 
percentage that may be charged monthly based on the patient's monthly 
household income. The maximum percentage will be set to 5 percent. The 
monthly household income will be multiplied by 5 percent and the result 
will be multiplied by 36 months to derive the amount of downward 
adjustment to the patient's bill. Amounts that exceed the recalculated 
amount will be waived. If the original bill is less than the 
recalculated bill, the original bill will remain as the balance owed.
    (3) Nominal fee. Once a year, the ASD(HA) will publish a stratified 
nominal inpatient and outpatient fee. The nominal fee will be assigned 
in any case where the sliding fee results in a 100 percent waiver of 
the medical invoice and the patient's income is above 100 percent and 
up to 400 percent of the applicable year's FPGs. Stratified nominal 
fees are generally established in a manner that is equitable with what 
military retirees enrolled in the TRICARE program would be required to 
pay in the private sector for comparable services. Nominal fees do not 
apply to catastrophic fee waivers. The initial nominal stratified fees 
are as follows:

                       Table 1 to Paragraph (l)(3)
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Household income falls within the
 below Federal poverty guidelines     Inpatient fee      Outpatient fee
------------------------------------------------------------------------
0%-100%...........................                   $0
                                   -------------------------------------
101%-120%.........................                750                 50
121%-140%.........................              1,250                 50
141%-160%.........................              2,000                 50
161%-180%.........................              3,000                 50
181%-200%.........................              4,000                 50
201%-220%.........................              5,000                 50
221%-240%.........................              6,000                 50
241%-260%.........................              7,000                 50
261%-280%.........................              8,000                 50
281%-300%.........................              9,000                 50
301%-320%.........................             10,000                 50
321%-340%.........................             11,000                 50
341%-360%.........................             12,000                 50
361%-380%.........................             13,000                 50
381%-400%.........................             14,000                 50
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (m) Notification of approved/disapproved MHS MPWP applications. 
Unless additional time is needed (e.g., to verify a patient's 
documentation), the DoD shall generally determine whether a patient has 
demonstrated eligibility for the MHS MPWP within 30 business days of 
receipt of the complete application. The DoD will suspend DoD 
collection actions (excluding the processing of insurance claims) 
against the patient during the review.
    (1) For approved applications, the DoD will issue to the patient a 
modified medical invoice reflecting the adjusted balance due after 
applying the sliding fee and/or catastrophic fee waiver. The invoice 
modified to reflect fee adjustments under the MHS MPWP will include 
notification of the requirement to transfer delinquent debts to the 
Department of the Treasury if, after any modification under the MHS 
MPWP, an unpaid invoice becomes delinquent.
    (2) For disapproved applications, the DHA will issue a letter by 
U.S. mail to the patient's last known address reflecting the reason why 
the application was disapproved. The letter will inform the patient of 
the right to reapply should the patient's financial circumstances 
change.
    (n) Collection in installments. Patients approved for a sliding 
scale fee reduction or catastrophic fee waiver shall have amounts 
collected in installments for a term not to exceed 72 months. Patients 
may choose to pay their balance in a lump sum payment.
    (o) Application for a 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b) waiver--(1) Basis for a 
waiver. Waivers may be granted when:
    (i) The patient has provided the DoD with a completed DD Form 2569 
(even for patients who possess no valid health insurance) and 
applicable insurance payments have been applied;
    (ii) The patient has previously submitted a completed application 
to the MHS MPWP (32 CFR 220.12(k)) and was approved for any applicable 
discounts;
    (iii) The patient submitted a DD Form 3201-1, ``Request for Medical 
Debt Waiver, Military Health System Modified Payment and Waiver 
Program,'' requesting waiver of already discounted fees; and
    (iv) A DoD competent medical authority at the treating MTF confirms 
in writing (on the DD Form 3201-1A, ``MHS Modified Payment and Waiver 
Program (MPWP) Medical Skills Sustainment Scoring Worksheet'') that the 
care provided to the patient enhanced the KSAs of the DoD healthcare 
provider. The completed DD Form 3201-1A yields whether a partial or 
full waiver of already discounted fees may be applied.
    (v) If the conditions in paragraphs (o)(1)(i) through (iv) are met, 
the Director of DHA may exercise discretionary authority to waive the 
medical invoice.
    (2) Method to request a waiver. Patients must submit a completed DD 
Form 3201-1, ``Request for Medical Debt Waiver Military Health System 
Modified Payment and Waiver Program.'' All DoD invoices will include

[[Page 5316]]

the address where a patient may submit a waiver request.
    (3) Response to a request for waiver. Unless additional time is 
needed (e.g., to verify a patient's documentation), the DoD shall 
generally make a decision on the request within 90 days. The DoD will 
provide a response in writing to the patient, as well as a copy of the 
medical invoice reflecting the balance due. Waivers that are approved 
under 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b) will require reporting to the IRS and issuance 
of an IRS Form 1099-C when required by 26 U.S.C. 6050P.
    (p) Debts transferred to Treasury that are subsequently processed 
through insurance. In any instance where a debt is transferred to 
Treasury and a lower balance is assigned to a Treasury-managed debt due 
to a claim being subsequently processed through insurance, the DoD 
shall recall the debt back to the DoD for management actions and notify 
Treasury to delete the debt from its systems and reverse any adverse 
reporting that occurred against the debt.
    (q) Delinquent Accounts. Delinquent accounts will be processed in 
accordance with the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 and its 
implementing regulation 31 CFR parts 900-904 (Federal Claims Collection 
Standards).
    (r) Applications for MHS MPWP Received for Delinquent Accounts 
Transferred to the Department of the Treasury. Individuals may still 
submit an application for the MHS MPWP after their account has been 
transferred to the Cross-Servicing Program (``Cross-Servicing'') of the 
Department of the Treasury, Bureau of the Fiscal Service; however, any 
reductions to the medical invoice from the MPWP may be subject to 
interest, penalties, and costs. When patients apply to the MHS MPWP 
after their accounts were transferred to Cross-Servicing, their debts 
will remain at Cross-Servicing unless and until the DoD determines that 
they are eligible for a reduction under the MHS MPWP. The DoD may 
recall the debt from Cross-Servicing after it determines that the debt 
is eligible for a reduction under the MHS MPWP. Patients may request 
reconsideration for the MHS MPWP when their financial circumstances 
appear to have significantly changed.
    (s) Reporting to IRS and Furnishing of IRS Forms 1099-C 
(Cancellation of Debt). The DoD will report to IRS, and furnish to 
patients, IRS Forms 1099-C for all 10 U.S.C. 1079b(b) waivers issued 
during the previous calendar year where required by 26 U.S.C. 6050P. 
IRS reporting will not be done for portions of a bill which have been 
adjusted downwards due to insurance processing, or by assignment of a 
sliding fee/catastrophic fee waiver to the debt under 10 U.S.C. 
1079b(c)(2) or (3). The IRS Forms 1099-C will reflect amounts waived 
under the DHA Director's discretionary authority.
    (t) Refunds not permitted for amounts previously paid. Except for 
circumstances specified in paragraphs (p) and (u)(3) of this section, 
financial relief under the MHS MPWP may only be granted for amounts 
still due by the patient; an application for financial relief cannot be 
used to obtain a refund for any amounts previously paid.
    (u) Claims involving tortfeasors and third-party payers. No 
discount or waiver of fees under 10 U.S.C. 1079b shall be interpreted 
to be applicable to tortfeasors under the FMCRA, 42 U.S.C. 2651, or 
third-party payers under 10 U.S.C. 1095.
    (1) For patients who indicate that their injury/disease was caused 
by a third party, DoD MTFs will follow procedures established under the 
Medical Affirmative Claims program.
    (2) Patients who have a remaining balance after insurance 
remittances or recoveries from third-party tortfeasors may apply for 
relief of any remaining medical debt.
    (3) Payments toward the medical debt that were made by the patient 
prior to settlement of the claim with the tortfeasor will be offset 
against any balances owed by the patient or may be refunded to the 
patient if no balance is owed.

    Dated: February 4, 2026.
Aaron T. Siegel,
Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense.
[FR Doc. 2026-02437 Filed 2-5-26; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 6001-FR-P


</pre><script data-cfasync="false" src="/cdn-cgi/scripts/5c5dd728/cloudflare-static/email-decode.min.js"></script></body>
</html>